It is my special pleasure to address the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
This universal forum has enabled the peoples of the world to coordinate and harmonize their efforts in preserving peace and security, in achieving prosperity and upholding the values of human civilization. 
I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on being elected to preside over this august body and to express my confidence in your successful leadership. 
I would also like, on behalf of Albania, to convey to the Secretary-General our highest appreciation for his leading contribution to the fulfilment of the historical mission of the United Nations and to the aspirations of our peoples for a better world in which only peace, democracy and economic prosperity reign. 
This session of the General Assembly takes place in a milestone year for Europe. 
Only a few months ago, a historic event vitalized the dream of a more united and stronger Europe. 
Ten European countries, sharing a common aspiration for integration, were admitted into the European Union. 
The Albanian Government and society are engaged in an all-round European integration process, and they are carrying out necessary reforms with the necessary political will and drive. 
Albania is working to strengthen the democratic institutions and capacities of its central and local government with a view to bringing its legislation and conditions into line with European Union standards, progressively achieving concrete and measurable results, as previously defined. 
Determined to make our contribution to regional and global security, the Albanian Government considers the country's integration into NATO to be one of its major objectives. 
The NATO Istanbul Summit last June commended the progress made by my country in this regard and encouraged the deepening of reforms. 
It welcomed Albania's contribution to regional stability and cooperation and committed to assess our further progress at the next NATO summit, which would hopefully mark the start of negotiations for our full membership in the alliance. 
We believe that the commitments set up in the framework of the Adriatic Charter are also contributing to meet NATO standards, to the benefit of regional stability and security. 
We remain truly convinced that the respect and protection of human rights and freedoms are the main pillars of a pluralist democratic society. 
The Government of the Republic of Albania will continue to constantly demonstrate its commitment to a full implementation of the standards enshrined in the United Nations and Council of Europe conventions, as well as the relevant documents of regional organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in which we are playing a very active role. 
We will continue to do so in the future as well. 
By adopting contemporary legislation and by becoming a party to other recently adopted international instruments on human rights, Albania has associated itself with countries that are enforcing a number of national strategies and programmes focusing on specific population groups, especially women, children, persons in need and minorities, among others. 
In recent years, the Albanian Government has started to periodically submit reports to the committees of the six main United Nations human rights treaties and is taking their recommendations into serious consideration. 
It is our belief that these international mechanisms play a significant and important role as guardians of the common human values we have together adopted. 
Albania, as one of the 191 signatory countries of the Millennium Declaration, remains fully committed to implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, which have been properly reflected in a national strategy for social and economic development. 
The pattern of our sustained economic growth, which is at 6 to 7 per cent for the seventh consecutive year, is a good support base for the whole society to maintain higher standards of respect for human rights and to fight poverty and crime. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the United Nations specialized agencies for their valuable assistance in support of the implementation of these objectives nationwide and on a central and local level. 
The Albanian Government is pleased to note that an ever-healthier climate of confidence and relations of bilateral and multilateral cooperation are prevailing in the South-Eastern European region. 
The countries of the region are fully engaged in a process that will lead us clearly toward Euro-Atlantic integration and at the same time continually remove us from the extremist tendencies that caused a number of conflicts in the last decade. 
The regional policy of my Government is guided by the motto: 'the more integrated in the region, the more integrated in Europe.' 
In implementing this policy, Albania is cooperating as never before with all the countries of the region by making borders less relevant, opening up to one regional market the implementation of free trade agreements and free movement corridors, and stimulating foreign direct investment. 
We are especially cooperating with the common fight against organized crime and all kinds of illegal trafficking. 
In the meantime, Albania is reinforcing its border management and control, guided by the European Union and NATO standards. 
My country will hold general parliamentary elections by the middle of next year. 
We are committed to doing all that is required to ensure that the election process is fully compatible with international standards for free and fair elections. 
To that end, we are committed to continuing to work with relevant specialized institutions on elections by fully implementing especially OSCE/Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) recommendations. 
For us, the process and standards are more important than the results of the elections. 
In the context of strengthening regional cooperation, my country is committed to a more enhanced partnership with all regional organizations and initiatives that serve the promotion of good neighbourly relations; the strengthening of regional peace, security and stability; ensuring political support for integration into Euro-Atlantic structures, and attracting financing for national and regional projects in priority fields such as energy, transportation and telecommunications. 
On its path towards European integration, the South-East European region is still facing pending challenges, such as the future of Kosovo. 
Albania greatly appreciates the recent democratic and integration developments in Kosovo, thanks to the efforts of the respective peoples and the partnership of its self-governing institutions with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). 
Allow me at this point to congratulate Mr. Soren Jessen-Petersen, Special Representative for Kosovo of the United Nations Secretary-General, in assuming this very important duty. 
When I tour around Taiwan, of course, I also find people taking action without even waiting for the ministries to take action. 
This is another of the g0v projects the environmental agency. 
If you change the O to a zero, you get into them, considering environmental agency. 
This is what people care about, the air quality, PM2.5 in Taiwan. 
More than 2,000 people, actually, installed these in their balconies, in their schools and so on, to get a real-time sensor of their IoT devices but not just IoT. 
They also upload it to the public cloud, which then uploads it to a distributed ledger to make sure that nobody can modify those numbers after the fact. 
After that, we see this kind of innovation is very rare in Asia. 
When I talk to all the UN-related bodies, many other Asian countries tell me that they won't let this network grow to be 2,000 nodes strong. 
If it's 200 nodes strong, they will try to poach the leader to the government. 
If they refuse, then maybe, they get disappeared because they really challenge the legitimacy of the environmental agency. 
If the environmental agency group reports one number and your neighbors report another number, of course, you're going to trust the one that you participated yourself, even though it's a lower quality sensor. 
Because of that, it's very rare in Taiwan because we have an expanding civic space. 
The government takes the approach of, "we can't beat them, let's join them". 
We manufacture low-cost, high-precision sensors for them, but we also see this as a map of digital gap in Taiwan, a digital divide. 
We set up points when the people don't have the resource to go to, indigenous places, places in the mountains. 
We also talk to the citizen scientists and they say they really want a point here to tell the air pollution from outside Taiwan or from inside Taiwan, domestically. 
There's no way the citizen scientists can install an AirBox there, even if they're very good at drones and so on. 
It's impossible to stay there forever. 
We can because we have wind turbines. 
That's electricity generators, power plants, over there. 
We can install those sensor networks as part of the complementary action. 
The beauty is this, it's all open hardware. 
It's all open source. 
It's on GitHub. 
You just download, put it onto Raspberry Pi, and then, you can do it yourself, as people have done over the world. 
If you don't change the source code, it uploads to the Taiwan network by default, so we kind of have the numbers of all the atmosphere and meteorological data. 
We have a website dedicated for this, the Civil IoT project at CI.taiwan.gov.tw, that is basically, collective intelligence, meteorological, air quality, earthquake, and disaster prevention, and things like that. 
We have single websites like this, CI for Collective Intelligence, AI for AI Taiwan, SI for Social Innovation, Smart Taiwan for the Smart Taiwan plan, and also, Bio Taiwan. 
The medical industry says, "You really should call it biomed.taiwan because bio and med are different things." 
Biomed Taiwan goes to the same website as Bio Taiwan. 
In any case, what we're doing is now is breaking across ministry and municipality and national government because this says nothing about the level of the government or the departments. 
It is one, single message that is collaboratively curated by everybody. 
Through this, we solved not just our local social and environmental issues through economic approaches but using the SDGs as a map to unite the efforts together. 
Just by saying "Taiwan can help", we mean specifically, 17, 18, which is the availability of reliable data that people from across sectors, across jurisdictions, can trust the data. 
Then, based on the data, we encourage cross-sectoral partnerships. 
Then, based on that, we make open innovations that we, then, export, not as colonizers but, really, co-creators. 
Just download it on GitHub and then, we devise something together in a way that has free access to science and technology. 
When I joined the cabinet two years ago, based on these ideas -- with a contract -- the administration asked me for a job description, because they've never seen anything like this before. 
Instead of a job description, I just wrote them a poem, a prayer, which I'm going to read to you as a conclusion. 
To me, it means the shift from IT or ICT to digital, the shift from the sectors separately as attack or an innovation, or whatever, into the humanity as a whole. 
This is digital transformation for me. 
This is, literally, my job description. 
It goes like this. 
"When we see the Internet of Things, let's make it an Internet of Beings. 
When we see virtual reality, let's make it a shared reality. 
When we see machine learning, let's make it collaborative learning. 
When we see user experience, let's make it about human experience, and whenever we hear that a singularity is near, let's keep in mind and always remember that a plurality is here." 
Thank you so much. 
A Tryst With Destiny 
Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru's Inaugural Address 
14 August 1947 
Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially. 
At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom. 
A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance. 
It is fitting that at this solemn moment, we take the pledge of dedication to the service of India and her people and to the still larger cause of humanity. 
At the dawn of history, India started on her unending quest, and trackless centuries are filled with her striving and grandeur of her success and failures. 
Through good and ill fortune alike, she has never lost sight of that quest, forgotten the ideals which gave her strength. 
We end today a period of misfortunes and India discovers herself again. 
The achievement we celebrate today is but a step, an opening of opportunity to the greater triumphs and achievements that await us. 
Are we brave enough and wise enough to grasp this opportunity and accept the challenge of the future? 
Freedom and power bring responsibility. 
The responsibility rests upon this Assembly, a sovereign body representing the sovereign people of India. 
Before the birth of freedom, we have endured all the pains of labour and our hearts are heavy with the memory of this sorrrow. 
Some of those pains continue even now. 
Nevertheless, the past is over and it is the future that beckons us now. 
That future is not one of ease or resting but of incessant striving so that we may fulfill the pledges we have so often taken and the one we shall take today. 
The service of India means, the service of the millions who suffer. 
It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and poverty and disease and inequality of opportunity. 
The ambition of the greatest men of our generation has been to wipe every tear from every eye. 
That may be beyond us, but as long as there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over. 
And so we have to labour and to work, and to work hard, to give reality to our dreams. 
Those dreams are for India, but they are also for the world, for all the nations and peoples are too closely knit together today for any one of them to imagine that it can live apart. 
Peace is said to be indivisible, so is freedom, so is prosperity now, and also is disaster in this one world that can no longer be split into isolated fragments. 
To the people of India, whose representatives we are, we make an appeal to join us with faith and confidence in this great adventure. 
This is no time for petty and destructive criticism, no time for illwill or blaming others. 
We have to build the noble mansion of free India where all her children may dwell. 
The appointed day has come -the day appointed by destiny- and India stands forth again, after long slumber and struggle, awake, vital, free and independent. 
The past clings on to us still in some measure and we have to do much before we redeem the pledges we have so often taken. 
Yet the turning - point is past, and history begins anew for us, the history which we shall live and act and others will write about. 
It is a fateful moment for us in India, for all Asia and for the world. 
A new star rises, the star of freedom in the East, a new hope comes into being, a vision long cherished materializes. 
May the star never set and that hope never be betrayed! 
We rejoice in that freedom, even though clouds surround us, and many of our people are sorrowstricken and difficult problems encompass us. 
But freedom brings responsibilities and burdens and we have to face them in the spirit of a free and disciplined people. 
On this day our first thoughts go to the architect of this freedom, the Father of our Nation, who, embodying the old spirit of India, held aloft the torch of freedom and lighted up the darkness that surrounded us. 
We have often been unworthy followers of his and have strayed from his message, but not only we but succeeding generations will remember this message and bear the imprint in their hearts of this great son of India, magnificent in his faith and strength and courage and humility. 
We shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the wind or stormy the tempest. 
Our next thoughts must be of the unknown volunteers and soldiers of freedom who, without praise or reward, have served India even unto death. 
We think also of our brothers and sisters who have been cut off from us by political boundaries and who unhappily can not share at present in the freedom that has come. 
They are of us and will remain of us whatever may happen, and we shall be sharers in their good [or] ill fortune alike. 
The future beckons to us. 
Whither do we go and what shall be our endeavour? 
To bring freedom and opportunity to the common man, to the peasants and workers of India; to fight and end poverty and ignorance and disease; to build up a prosperous, democratic and progressive nation, and to create social, economic and political institutions which will ensure justice and fullness of life to every man and woman. 
We have hard work ahead. 
There is no resting for any one of us till we redeem our pledge in full, till we make all the people of India what destiny intended them to be. 
We are citizens of a great country on the verge of bold advance, and we have to live up to that high standard. 
All of us, to whatever religion we may belong, are equally the children of India with equal rights, privileges and obligations. 
We cannot encourage communalism or narrow - mindedness, for no nation can be great whose people are narrow in thought or in action. 
To the nations and peoples of the world we send greetings and pledge ourselves to cooperate with them in furthering peace, freedom and democracy. 
And to India, our much - loved motherland, the ancient, the eternal and the ever - new, we pay our reverent homage and we bind ourselves afresh to her service. 
Pelosi Floor Speech in Support of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act 
MARCH 3, 2021 
PRESS RELEASE 
Washington, D.C.–Speaker Nancy Pelosi delivered remarks on the Floor of the House of Representatives in support of H. R. 1280, the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act of 2021. 
Below are the Speaker’s remarks: 
Speaker Pelosi. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
I thank the gentleman from New York, the distinguished Chair of the Judiciary Committee, for yielding and for his leadership in bringing this important legislation to the Floor. 
And I commend Congresswoman Karen Bass, Madam Chair, for your great leadership in this important legislation. 
Madam Speaker, nearly one year ago, George Floyd gasped his last words, ‘I can't breathe,’ and ignited a nationwide reckoning on the racial injustice and police brutality in America. 
Americans from every corner of the country took to the streets to peacefully protest violence against Black Americans, waving Black Lives Matter flags, chanting the names of the murdered, repeating George Floyd's dying words, ‘I can't breathe.’ 
They turned their agony into action, but tragically, despite these mass protests, the injustice, killings continued. 
Those protests were global. 
They were all over the world. 
Here, as Members of Congress and as Americans, we cannot accept this epidemic of injustice. 
We cannot stay silent when one–when our most vulnerable and historically marginalized communities, people of color, those living in poverty, Americans with disabilities are being targeted and sometimes killed. 
That is why, today, the House will again pass the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act and send it to the Senate and the President's desk so that it can finally become the law of the land. 
I salute Congresswoman Karen Bass who has been relentless, persistent and absolutely courageous in her leadership on this legislation. 
Thank you to the Congressional Black Caucus and its Chair, Joyce Beatty. 
And Judiciary Chair Jerry Nadler, thank you. 
The George Floyd Justice in Policing Act fundamentally transforms the culture of policing with strong, unprecedented reforms. 
This legislation will not erase centuries of systemic racism and excessive policing in America. 
It will not bring back George Floyd, Breonna Taylor–say her name, Breonna Taylor–Ahmaud Arbery, or the countless other men and women who died or were senselessly injured. 
But it will make a tremendous–take a tremendous step toward–or to stop the violence, stem the suffering and start to build a healthier, better relationship between law enforcement and communities that they respect. 
All of us here salute and are proudly, profoundly grateful to our law enforcement heroes. 
I grew up in a family, public service family. 
My father, my whole life at home, was Mayor of Baltimore. 
My brother was Mayor later, Thomas D’Alesandro, in Baltimore. 
And they had a motto about the police: ‘Be true to the men in blue.’ 
Of course this was a long time ago and they were all men. 
‘Be true to the men in blue.’ 
So, I was I was raised with that respect, with the – prayerfully that these people, our men and women, now, men and women in uniform, whether they're police or fire, but addressing police here, our first responders left home when they left to go to work, not knowing – their families not knowing if they would return home because they were risking their lives to save lives and to protect all of us. 
So, it’s with great, prayerful gratitude to most of the men and women in blue, that we sadly have to say that our appreciation for them cannot lapse into apathy or acceptance of actions that are fundamentally incompatible with the purpose of policing, the purpose of policing. 
Of course, we all – there's not anyone on our side of the aisle who has advocated any policy in this body to defund the police, contrary to misrepresentations that are coming forth. 
All of us here, again, salute and profoundly grateful for our law enforcement heroes. 
As the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives writes, ‘The passage of this act is paramount in achieving the fundamental principle of a police force that protects and serves every citizen of their community with fairness, accountability and transparency in their actions.’ 
The Democratic Congress, together with the Biden-Harris Administration, is committed to not only ensuring that this legislation becomes law, but to take further action to end violence and advance justice in America. 
Let us ensure that the passage of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act is the first of many steps in this direction. 
To the family of George Floyd that came here when the bill was being reviewed by your committee, Mr Chairman – you remember that day. 
We couldn't be in your committee room because of COVID, but they came and they asked me that day, they said, ‘Madam Speaker, will you name this bill for our brother?’ 
Philonise, his brother, asked that question. 
I said, ‘Only if you think it is worthy of your brother.’ 
I think of George Floyd at least once a day – sometimes more. 
And you know why? 
Not just because of the sadness of it all, but I think of him because they tell us that in order to be safe from COVID, we must wash our hands for 20 seconds. 
As I'm washing my hands for 20 seconds, after about eight or nine seconds, I'm thinking 
‘This is taking forever. 
I can't do this for 20 seconds. 
It takes too long.’ 
And then I think of George Floyd. 
Eight minutes and 46 seconds. 
That's a long time. 
It's a long time, as Congresswoman Dean said, calling out for his mother, extending love to his family. 
OK. 
Let us ensure that George's brother, Philonise, when he said, ‘George's name means something,’ and that, as his daughter, Gianna, said, ‘Daddy changed the world’ with this legislation. 
Let us take an important step in changing the world for George's family, for all communities of color, for all Americans, for the whole world. 
With that, Madam Speaker, I urge a strong, bipartisan vote on the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. 
I thank Karen Bass again, Madam Chair. 
Thank you so much, again. 
And I yield back the balance of my time. 
The Charter of the United Nations sends a clear message to us all: put people first. 
The first words of the Charter, “We the peoples”, are a summons to place people at the centre of our work — every day, everywhere. 
People with anxieties and aspirations, people with heartbreaks and hopes and, above all, people with rights. 
Those rights are not a favour to be rewarded or withheld; they are an endowment for simply being human. 
Throughout the first half of my mandate, I have had the good fortune to meet people around the world, not in gilded meeting rooms but where they live, work and dream. 
And I have listened. 
I have heard families in the South Pacific who fear their lives being swept away by rising seas; young refugees in the Middle East yearning for a return to school and home; Ebola survivors in North Kivu struggling to rebuild their lives; women demanding equality and opportunity; people of all beliefs and traditions who suffer simply because of who they are; and so many others. 
We are living in a world of disquiet. 
A great many people fear getting trampled, thwarted, left behind. 
Machines take their jobs, traffickers take their dignity, demagogues take their rights, warlords take their lives, fossil fuels take their futures. 
And yet people believe in the spirit and ideas that bring us to this Hall. 
They believe in the United Nations. 
But do they believe in us? 
Do they believe that, as leaders, we will put people first? 
We the leaders must deliver for we the peoples. 
People have the right to live in peace. 
One year ago in this Hall, I spoke of winds of hope despite the chaos and confusion of our world (see A/73/PV.6). 
Since then, some of those currents have continued to move in promising directions. 
Against the expectations of many, elections unfolded peacefully in Madagascar, the Maldives and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to name just a few places. 
Greece and the Republic of North Macedonia resolved their decades-long name dispute. 
Political dialogue in the Sudan and the peace process in the Central African Republic have brought renewed hope. 
A long-sought step forward has just been taken on the political path out of the tragedy in Syria, in line with Security Council resolution 2254 (2015). 
As I announced yesterday, an agreement has been reached with all parties for a credible, balanced and inclusive Syrian-owned and Syrian-led constitutional committee. 
My Special Envoy just left Damascus after finalizing the last details with the Government and the opposition. 
The United Nations looks forward to convening the committee in Geneva in the coming weeks. 
However, across the global landscape, we see conflicts persisting, terrorism spreading and the risk of a new arms race growing. 
Outside interferences, often in violation of Security Council resolutions, make peace processes more difficult. 
Many situations remain unresolved, from Yemen and Libya to Afghanistan and beyond. 
A succession of unilateral actions threatens to thwart a two-State solution between Israel and Palestine. 
In Venezuela, 4 million people have fled the country — one of the largest displacements in the world. 
Tensions are heightened in South Asia, where differences need to be addressed through dialogue. 
Above all, we are facing the alarming possibility of armed conflict in the Gulf, the consequences of which the world can not afford. 
The recent attack on Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities was completely unacceptable. 
In a context where a minor miscalculation can lead to a major confrontation, we must do everything possible to push for reason and restraint. 
I hope for a future in which all the countries of the region can live in a state of mutual respect and cooperation, without interference in each other’s affairs. 
I hope equally that it will still be possible to preserve the progress on nuclear non-proliferation represented by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. 
From the first day, I have emphasized prevention, mediation and a surge in diplomacy for peace in order to address the crises that we face. 
Consider the lives that we can save by strengthening our investments to sustain peace around the world. 
Across some of the most troubled corners of the world, some 100,000 United Nations peacekeepers protect civilians and promote peace. 
Through the Action for Peacekeeping initiative, we are strengthening our effectiveness and efficiency and we are renewing partnerships with troop- and police-contributing countries, host countries and regional organizations, such as the African Union and the European Union. 
I am also proud of the work of our humanitarian workers, easing suffering around the world. 
Fully half of all international relief aid is channelled through the United Nations, ensuring that millions receive protection, food, medicine, shelter, water and other life-saving forms of assistance. 
This year alone, in brutal attacks and other circumstances, we have lost at least 80 peacekeepers, humanitarian workers and others, all of whom gave their lives serving the United Nations and trying to better the lives of others. 
I honour their service and their sacrifice. 
We have bolstered our counter-terrorism architecture and defined new strategies to tackle violent extremism and to address root causes, while respecting human rights. 
I have put forward a new disarmament agenda to advance global peace. 
In the near term, the New START Treaty must be extended. 
We must work to address the heightened threat posed by ballistic missiles and ensure a successful 2020 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
The situation of the Korean peninsula remains uncertain. 
I fully support the efforts towards a new summit between the President of the United States and the leader of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
At this time of transition and dysfunction in global power relations, there is a new risk looming on the horizon that may not yet be large but it is real. 
I fear the possibility of a great fracture — the world splitting in two, with the two largest economies on Earth creating two separate and competing worlds, each with their own dominant currency, trade and financial rules, their own Internet and artificial intelligence capacities and their own zero-sum geopolitical and military strategies. 
We must do everything possible to avert the great fracture and maintain a universal system — a universal economy with universal respect for international law, a multipolar world with strong multilateral institutions. 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S65 
January 20, 2021 
MAIDEN SPEECH 
Mr. President, I need to catch my breath, so much has happened. 
A few hours ago, on the West Front of this citadel of democracy, Joe Biden and KAMALA HARRIS were administered the oaths of Office to the Presidency and Vice Presidency of the United States. 
We have turned the page to a new chapter in the history of our democracy, and I am full of hope. 
I would challenge anyone not to feel hopeful today after listening to Amanda Gorman, the amazing 22–year-old poet, wise far beyond her years, who told us that: 
Somehow we’ve weathered and witnessed a nation that isn’t broken but simply unfinished 
The hope she spoke about—the strong and happy hope— the hope we feel today, is a hope, of course, that is tempered by reality. 
This was an inauguration unlike most others. 
The crowds that customarily line the National Mall were absent, a reminder that our Nation is still in the throes of a deadly pandemic. 
The presence of thousands of National Guardsmen, police, and Secret Service was a reminder that 2 weeks ago, in this very room and on those very steps where President Biden took the oath, a mob of violent criminals tried to dismantle our democracy—our sacred democracy—brick by brick and would try again if they could. 
But, as President Biden said a few hours ago, today, democracy has prevailed, the will of the people was heeded, and the peaceful transfer of power fulfilled. 
It takes a lot more than a band of hooligans to bring our grand democracy down. 
Let it be a message to our friends and adversaries around the world that our democracy, though it has been tried and been tested, shall long endure. 
And let it be a message to those terrorists who desecrated this temple of democracy that they will never prevail. 
Joe Biden is now the 46th President of the United States. 
KAMALA HARRIS is now the 49th Vice President of the United States. 
But, of course, in more ways than one, she is not the 49th but the first—the first African-American woman, the first Asian-American woman, and the first woman, period, to hold the Office of Vice Presidency in our Nation’s history. 
Today, the threat to our democracy from the Presidency itself has ended, but the challenges we face as a nation remain. 
In the wake of violence and division, hatred and mistruth, in the shadow of disease and economic hardship, a warming planet and unequal society, we begin the work of the 117th Congress. 
In his inaugural address, President Biden spoke to this moment—a moment of great challenge—and told us two simple truths: One, that our responsibilities are numerous, and, two, it will take unity—unity of spirit, unity of purpose—to fulfill them. 
President Biden, we heard you loud and clear. 
We have a lengthy agenda, and we need to get it done together. 
President Biden pointed the way to our Nation’s recovery and renewal. 
He reminded us of who we are and where we need to go, but we must now turn the spirit of his words into action. 
The Senate must immediately set to work on the mission President Biden described—restoring the greatness and goodness of America. 
This will be an exceptionally busy and consequential period for the U.S. Senate. 
There is much to do, and we are ready to get to work. 
Now, not to upstage our new President and Vice President, but theirs has not been the only swearing in today. 
A few moments ago, the Senate welcomed three new Members to this Chamber. 
I can now happily and proudly call them Senator PADILLA, Senator OSSOFF, and Senator WARNOCK. 
They join Senators KELLY, HICKENLOOPER, and Luján as part of a six-Member class of Democratic Senators and a new Democratic Senate majority. 
I mention the historic nature of Vice President HARRIS’ ascendance, but let’s not forget that her successor, ALEX PADILLA, is the first Latino Senator to represent California; that RAFAEL WARNOCK, born while Georgia was represented in this Chamber by two staunch segregationists, is now the first African-American Senator Georgia has ever elected; and that JOHN OSSOFF is the first Jewish Senator from his State, sworn in today on a book of Hebrew Scripture once owned by the rabbi, who, decades ago, formed a bond between the Jewish and African-American communities of Georgia. 
As President Biden said in his inaugural address, “don’t tell me things can’t change.” 
With the swearing in of these three Senators, the Senate will turn to Democratic control, for which I deeply thank my colleagues. 
We will return to Democratic control under the first New York-born majority leader in American history—a kid from Brooklyn, the son of an exterminator and a housewife, and a descendant of victims of the Holocaust. 
That I should be the leader of this new Senate majority is an awesome responsibility—awesome in the Biblical sense, as the angels that tremble in awe before God. 
Today, I feel the full weight of that responsibility, a sense of reverence and of awe at the trust placed in me. 
I intend to honor that trust with all of my energy and with joy. 
And as the majority changes in the Senate, the Senate will do business differently. 
The Senate will address the challenges our country faces head on and without delay, not with timid solutions but with boldness and with courage. 
The Senate will tackle the perils of the moment, a once-in-a-generation health and economic crisis, and it will strive to make progress on generations-long struggle for racial justice, economic justice, equality of opportunity, and equality under the law. 
And make no mistake, the Senate will forcefully, consistently, and urgently address the greatest threat to this country and to our planet: climate change. 
This Senate will legislate. 
It will be active, responsive, energetic, and bold. 
And to my Republican colleagues, when and where we can, the Democratic majority will strive to make this important work bipartisan. 
The Senate works best when we work together. 
We have no choice. 
The challenges we face are great. 
The divisions in the country are real. 
We have no choice but to try to work together every day to reward the faith the American people have placed in us. 
So let us begin. 
I yield the floor. 
Address to the Nation 
Announcing Decision To Resign the Office of President of the United States 
August 08, 1974 
Good evening: 
This is the 37th time I have spoken to you from this office, where so many decisions have been made that shaped the history of this Nation. 
Each time I have done so to discuss with you some matter that I believe affected the national interest. 
In all the decisions I have made in my public life, I have always tried to do what was best for the Nation. 
Throughout the long and difficult period of Watergate, I have felt it was my duty to persevere, to make every possible effort to complete the term of office to which you elected me. 
In the past few days, however, it has become evident to me that I no longer have a strong enough political base in the Congress to justify continuing that effort. 
As long as there was such a base, I felt strongly that it was necessary to see the constitutional process through to its conclusion, that to do otherwise would be unfaithful to the spirit of that deliberately difficult process and a dangerously destabilizing precedent for the future. 
But with the disappearance of that base, I now believe that the constitutional purpose has been served, and there is no longer a need for the process to be prolonged. 
I would have preferred to carry through to the finish, whatever the personal agony it would have involved, and my family unanimously urged me to do so. 
But the interests of the Nation must always come before any personal considerations. 
From the discussions I have had with Congressional and other leaders, I have concluded that because of the Watergate matter, I might not have the support of the Congress that I would consider necessary to back the very difficult decisions and carry out the duties of this office in the way the interests of the Nation will require. 
I have never been a quitter. 
To leave office before my term is completed is abhorrent to every instinct in my body. 
But as President, I must put the interests of America first. 
America needs a full-time President and a full-time Congress, particularly at this time with problems we face at home and abroad. 
To continue to fight through the months ahead for my personal vindication would almost totally absorb the time and attention of both the President and the Congress in a period when our entire focus should be on the great issues of peace abroad and prosperity without inflation at home. 
Therefore, I shall resign the Presidency effective at noon tomorrow. 
Vice President Ford will be sworn in as President at that hour in this office. 
As I recall the high hopes for America with which we began this second term, I feel a great sadness that I will not be here in this office working on your behalf to achieve those hopes in the next 2 1/2 years. 
But in turning over direction of the Government to Vice President Ford, I know, as I told the Nation when I nominated him for that office 10 months ago, that the leadership of America will be in good hands. 
In passing this office to the Vice President, I also do so with the profound sense of the weight of responsibility that will fall on his shoulders tomorrow and, therefore, of the understanding, the patience, the cooperation he will need from all Americans. 
As he assumes that responsibility, he will deserve the help and the support of all of us. 
As we look to the future, the first essential is to begin healing the wounds of this Nation, to put the bitterness and divisions of the recent past behind us and to rediscover those shared ideals that lie at the heart of our strength and unity as a great and as a free people. 
By taking this action, I hope that I will have hastened the start of that process of healing which is so desperately needed in America. 
I regret deeply any injuries that may have been done in the course of the events that led to this decision. 
I would say only that if some of my judgments were wrong--and some were wrong--they were made in what I believed at the time to be the best interest of the Nation. 
To those who have stood with me during these past difficult months--to my family, my friends, to many others who joined in supporting my cause because they believed it was right--I will be eternally grateful for your support. 
And to those who have not felt able to give me your support, let me say I leave with no bitterness toward those who have opposed me, because all of us, in the final analysis, have been concerned with the good of the country, however our judgments might differ. 
So, let us all now join together in affirming that common commitment and in helping our new President succeed for the benefit of all Americans. 
I shall leave this office with regret at not completing my term, but with gratitude for the privilege of serving as your President for the past 5 1/2 years. 
These years have been a momentous time in the history of our Nation and the world. 
They have been a time of achievement in which we can all be proud, achievements that represent the shared efforts of the Administration, the Congress, and the people. 
But the challenges ahead are equally great, and they, too, will require the support and the efforts of the Congress and the people working in cooperation with the new Administration. 
We have ended America's longest war, but in the work of securing a lasting peace in the world, the goals ahead are even more far-reaching and more difficult. 
We must complete a structure of peace so that it will be said of this generation, our generation of Americans, by the people of all nations, not only that we ended one war but that we prevented future wars. 
We have unlocked the doors that for a quarter of a century stood between the United States and the People's Republic of China. 
We must now ensure that the one quarter of the world's people who live in the People's Republic of China will be and remain not our enemies, but our friends. 
I am proud to come here to Philadelphia and join my fellow Democrats. 
In 1960, the Democrats of this city produced a margin in the presidential race that was in this city three times as large as it was in the whole United States. 
So I am proud to be back here again, and I am very happy to be introduced by your distinguished chairman, Bill Green. 
When he became chairman of this city committee, there were 300,000 more Republicans registered in the city of Philadelphia than Democrats, and it is a source of satisfaction to me that tonight there are 260,000 more Democrats registered. 
I can understand why some Republicans may not like it, but, as a Democrat, as one who believes in the Democratic Party, as one who believes that the Democratic Party has meant progress for this city, this State, and this country, I am proud to be here in Philadelphia. 
And I am proud to be here with your mayor. 
I do not come from Philadelphia, and I would not interfere, but I am hopeful and confident that when we come to the Army - Navy game in a month from now, we will be greeted by the new mayor of Philadelphia, Mayor Tale. 
I haven't given a political speech for about 3 years, so I am a little out of practice, but I am gradually getting back into it. 
And I am glad to be here with a mayor who follows two other distinguished mayors of this city, who carries on their tradition - Joe Clark, your United States Senator who was a great mayor of Philadelphia, and Dick Dilworth, who followed him, who was a great mayor of Philadelphia. 
That is the tradition of honest, progressive democratic government that Mayor Tate carries on. 
And I am glad to be here with Judge Hoffman and Senator Mahady who also run this fall in the State of Pennsylvania. 
Everyone expects things of Presidents, but I am not sure that they realize how much depends upon the Members of the House and the Members of the Senate who must make the final judgment on what kind of laws a President must execute. 
The Congressmen from this city as well as the Senator from this State - Bill Barrett and Bob Nix and Herman Toll and Jim Byrne and Chairman Green - have, with Joe Clark supported legislation month in and month out that benefited this city and this State and this country and, what is more, has helped make the United States meet its responsibilities around the globe. 
So what you do in this city counts all across the country, and Philadelphia has sent the right men to the House of Representatives and to the Senate of the United States. 
And I am also proud to be here with your former Governor who is now working for us in Washington as our adviser on fair housing, Governor Dave Lawrence, of the State of Pennsylvania. 
Three years ago tomorrow night, I spoke in this hall in the closing days of the 1960 campaign, and I asked the people of this city to give us their support to help this country move again. 
The people of Philadelphia gave that support, and the support I received from this city and this State was, as it was in the 1960 convention, the key to our victory across the country. 
I am back in Philadelphia to express my thanks for that support and also to express appreciation for the help we received from those Democrats in this city and State, and to report to you on the progress that this country has made on the goals that were outlined 3 years ago. 
I did not promise on that October night that life would be easy in the Great Republic. 
I did not say we would not have new pressures and new problems. 
Nor did I speak of swift solutions in 100 days in office. 
I talked instead about the kind of America that I wanted for my family and for your family and all those who are citizens of this country in these difficult and changing years, the kind of America in which I believed, not as a Democrat or as a candidate, but as a citizen. 
Today, in many ways, the world looks very different, and the revolutionary change of pace is even more rapid than it has been in the past. 
But there has been no change in my concept of the goals which this country must strive for if it is to meet its responsibilities to its people and those who depend upon it. 
I still believe in the kind of America which I described in this hall 3 years ago, and I am still determined that this Nation shall continue to strive to meet those goals. 
And I am gratified to be able to report some progress in the last 33 1/2 months. 
I said, first of all, that I believed in America where work was available to those who were willing and able to work, where the waste of idle men and machines could be avoided, and where greater economic growth could provide the new jobs and the new markets that our growing Nation needed. 
That goal has not been fully achieved. 
There are still too many men and women, particularly young men and women, unable to find work. 
And our high wartime tax rates still prevent our economy from growing as fully and as freely as it must. 
But one fact is that 2 1/2 million people more are working in the United States than were working 33 months ago. 
The rate of unemployment and idle capacity has been cut, and our economy of the United States will shortly pass the $ 600 billion mark, for a record rise--for a record rise in 3 years of $ 100 billion--the largest peacetime rise in the history of the United States. 
And if we can obtain the early passage of an effective tax cut which the House of Representatives has already passed--and which the Ways and Means Committee, on which Bill Green serves, wrote--we shall be sailing this country next year on the longest and strongest peacetime expansion of our economy in the history of the United States. 
It is well within our reach. 
Good morning. 
It gives me great pleasure to be here today as the Chief Guest during the launch of School of Open – Africa. 
I would like to begin by sincerely thanking Creative Commons Africa community and under the able coordination of Alex Gakuru and Tobias Schonwetter, and the global Creative Commons Community for inviting me to preside over this launch. 
I am happy to note the enthusiasm demonstrated by School of Open Africa in transforming education along Sustainable Development Goals proposed for post-2015 (Goal No. 4: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning opportunities for all”) and in line with the Kenya Vision 2030 which seeks to transform Kenya into a middle-income country that offers high quality of life to all citizens by the year 2030. 
I am happy to note how much School of Open Africa has grown in Kenya and embraced in countries like Senegal, Nigeria, and South Africa among other African countries in the last few years. 
I am informed that School of Open by Creative Commons is highly reputed around the world for addressing universal access to education. 
Awarding CopyrightX certificates / CC BY / Phillip Ranja 
Kenya is a signatory to the UNESCO’s 2012 Paris Declaration on Open Education Resources licensed under Creative Commons open licenses. 
The use of open education resources improves the quality of teaching and learning, including by accelerating student comprehension and by providing more opportunities for the realisation of universal access to education. 
Open Educational Resources (OER) are teaching, learning, and research materials in any medium that reside in the public domain or have been released under an open license that permits their free use and re-purposing by others. 
Fully aware of the role of education in a country’s development agenda, I am sure that the new initiatives being undertaken by School of Open Africa, the Creative Commons and UNESCO are making their contribution towards the social, economic, and political pillars which are the three fundamental cornerstones of our country, and indeed for our great continent. 
Ladies and gentlemen, as you may be aware, the Country’s development blue print is being implemented through successive five- year Medium Term Plans (MTPs) that will finally enable the country to achieve the long-term goals. 
We are now in the second medium term plan cycle (2013 - 2017) whose theme is “Transforming Kenya: Pathways to Devolution, Socio-economic Development, Equity and National Unity”. 
As you may be aware, the ICT Authority rolled out the National ICT Master plan that will set the pace for progression of the country in ICT for the next five years. 
The Master plan – once fully rolled out – will completely transform government processes, services and management, and make information access and service delivery more efficient. 
Again, the Master plan, with the flagship projects to pilot its implementation, will steer the march towards the digital future that will transform the country to a regional technical hub, raise the country’s competitiveness and align the country in line with Vision 2030’s ICT goals. 
By launching the Kenya ICT Master Plan, the government revealed its commitment towards the enhancement of access to quality education and training through ICT in line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
We are reviewing the National ICT Policy Guidelines to ensure alignment with proposed Sustainable Development Goals. 
As a country, we are also privileged to have a National ICT Policy whose goal is to create a prosperous ICT - driven Kenyan society. 
With a well mainstreamed ICT society, we are assured of better livelihoods of Kenyans attainable through the availability of accessible, efficient, reliable and affordable ICT services. 
ICT provides a platform that enables the realization of these goals. 
I must emphasize that Creative Commons through the School of Open Africa has provided a good example of innovative use of ICT in education that resonates well with the Kenya National ICT Master Plan. 
The integration of ICT into educational programmes places both the teaching staff and students at the forefront in the utilization of ICT for the enhancement of lives. 
I note with great pleasure the freedom to re-purpose offered by openly licensed educational resources, the convenience online access to learners as alternative courses delivery and certification methods. 
At this juncture, ladies and gentlemen, I thank William Fisher III, Professor of Intellectual Property and his staff at the Berkman Centre for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School for providing a free copyright law course taught to graduands present today to receive their certificates. 
I also thank Michael Murungi (then CEO, National Council for Law Reporting or “Kenya Law”) and Alex Gakuru for successfully conducting the course in Nairobi. 
I must congratulate the former students and ask to make the very best use of the copyright law knowledge they acquired while also challenging all universities represented here to consider emulating the highly successfully CopyrightX initiative. 
As the government continues to work on modalities of ensuring universal access to education and increasing the internet penetration in all parts of the country, we are pleased to witness this mode of study that will definitely translate to affordable education. 
Open Education Resources coupled with innovative use of ICT in education will accelerate realization of a modern Kenya that will be a knowledge-based economy. 
By using Open Educational Resources, OER, School of Open is opening up to many students who would have otherwise missed the opportunity of accessing education, especially in the marginalized areas which could not adequately access quality education. 
Ongoing, voluntary, and self- motivated pursuit of knowledge for either personal or professional reasons is one of the characteristics of the 21st Century. 
One of the major ways of promoting life-long learning is the continuous use of ICT innovations in education. 
I congratulate School of Open teams across Africa for the innovative and transformative mode of teaching and learning that we are launching today. 
This African initiative is a worthy model for other regions of the world to emulate. 
As I conclude I take this opportunity to applaud UNESCO’s efforts and contribution in the development and growth of the country through this noble initiative that enables the primary, secondary and universities to optimize the use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in learning. 
I acknowledge the generous financial support from the Hewlett Foundation and SOO Africa teams support by Google. 
With those remarks, it is now my pleasure to declare the School of Open Africa officially opened. 
Thank you. 
Remarks by President Biden and Vice President Harris in a Briefing to Preview the First Images from the James Webb Space Telescope 
JULY 11, 2022 • STATEMENTS AND RELEASES 
South Court Auditorium 
Eisenhower Executive Office Building 
6:13 P.M. EDT 
THE VICE PRESIDENT: 
Thank you. 
Thank you. 
Well, good evening, everyone. 
I am very honored to be with you all. 
President Joe Biden and I talk often about our mutual passion for everything you all do. 
This is a very exciting moment to join you for the unveiling of the work that you have been laboring on for decades. 
So, to our President, Joe Biden, thank you for your leadership around all of these issues. 
Our NASA Administrator, Bill Nelson, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy Acting Director, Dr. Alondra Nelson. 
Thank you also to our colleagues from across the White House and NASA and everyone else joining us from home. 
So, yes, as Chair of the National Space Council, I know that today represents an exciting new chapter in the exploration of our universe. 
From the beginning of history, humans have looked up to the night sky with wonder. 
And thanks to dedicated people who have been working for decades in engineering and on scientific marvels, we can look to the sky with new understanding. 
When NASA launched the Hubble Space Telescope in 1990, we were able to see the stars unobstructed by the Earth’s atmosphere and understand the universe in ways we could have never imagined even a few decades earlier. 
And now we enter a new phase of scientific discovery. 
Building on the legacy of Hubble, the James Webb Space Telescope allows us to see deeper into space than ever before and in stunning clarity. 
It will enhance what we know about the origins of our universe, our solar system, and possibly life itself. 
This was made possible by partnership among nations. 
And it is an example of how the scientific endeavor can build upon the international rules and norms that govern our cooperation in space. 
This telescope is one of humanity’s great engineering achievements. 
And the images we will see today are a testament to the amazing work done by the thousands of workers across our nation who dedicated years to this project. 
They embarked on this complex endeavor for the benefit of humankind, and in the process, accelerated American innovation, strengthened partnerships with our allies, and will undoubtedly inspire generations to look to the heavens with excitement and ambition. 
With that, it is my great honor to introduce a leader who has always believed in the power of American innovation and international cooperation to achieve the remarkable: our President, the President of the United States, Joe Biden. 
THE PRESIDENT: 
Well, it’s great to be with you all. 
And I was going to say “good afternoon,” but we’re starting this meeting late because I was engaged in preparing for a trip to the Middle East. 
But today is a historic day. 
And thank you, Vice President Harris, Chair of the National Space Council. 
And thank you, my dear friend and our outstanding NASA Administrator and the guy—the only guy here who’s been in space, Bill Nelson. 
Bill, you’re a good friend. 
Thank you very much for what you’re doing. 
And—and, Dr. Nelson, you’re doing a great job leading this Office of Science and Technology Policy. 
It really is a matter—it really is amazing. 
Six and a half months ago, a rocket launched from Earth carrying the world’s newest, most powerful deep-space telescope on a journey one million miles into the cosmos—first of all, that blows my mind: a million miles into the cosmos—along the way unfolding itself, deploying a mirror 21 feet wide, a sunshield the size of a tennis court, and 250,000 tiny shutters, each one smaller than a grain of sand. 
Put together, it’s a new window into the history of our universe. 
And today, we’re going to get a glimpse of the first light to shine through that window—light from other worlds, orbiting stars far beyond our own. 
It’s astounding to me when I read this and saw the—I mean, it really is. 
It’s—it’s—anyway, I don’t want to—I’ll see what they think when we see this. 
But light where stars were born and from where they die. 
Light from the oldest galaxies. 
The oldest documented light in the history of the universe from over 13 billion—let me say that again: 13 billion years ago. 
It’s hard to even fathom. 
Tomorrow, when this image is shared with the world, it will be a historic moment for science and technology, for astronomy and space exploration, for America and all of humanity. 
You know, as an international collaboration, this telescope embodies how America leads the world not by the example of our power, but the power of our example. 
A partnership with others, it symbolizes the relentless spirit of American ingenuity. 
And it shows what we can achieve, what more we can discover, not just about distant places, but about our very own planet and climate, like NASA’s Earth System Observatory that we launched last year. 
That’s why the federal government must invest—must invest in science and technology, more than we have in the past. 
These images are going to remind the world that America can do big things. 
And they’ll remind the American people, especially our children, that there’s nothing beyond our capacity—nothing beyond our capacity. 
We can see possibilities no one has ever seen before. 
We can go places no one has ever gone before. 
You know, you’ve—you’ve heard me say it over and over again. 
America is defined by one single word: possibilities. 
Possibilities. 
I want to thank the team at NASA for once again showing that that’s who we are—that’s who we are as a nation: a nation of possibilities. 
And now let’s take a look at the very first image from this miraculous telescope. 
Wow. 
Whoa. 
That is some group of people. 
Thousands. 
So nice, thank you very much. 
That's really nice. 
Thank you. 
It's great to be at Trump Tower. 
It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York. 
And it's an honor to have everybody here. 
This is beyond anybody's expectations. 
There's been no crowd like this. 
And, I can tell you, some of the candidates, they went in. 
They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work. 
They sweated like dogs. 
They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there. 
How are they going to beat ISIS? 
I don't think it's gonna happen. 
Our country is in serious trouble. 
We don't have victories anymore. 
We used to have victories, but we don't have them. 
When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal? 
They kill us. 
I beat China all the time. 
All the time. 
We want Trump. 
We want Trump. 
When did we beat Japan at anything? 
They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? 
When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? 
It doesn't exist, folks. 
They beat us all the time. 
When do we beat Mexico at the border? 
They're laughing at us, at our stupidity. 
And now they are beating us economically. 
They are not our friend, believe me. 
But they're killing us economically. 
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems. 
Thank you. 
It's true, and these are the best and the finest. 
When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. 
They're not sending you. 
They're not sending you. 
They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. 
They're bringing drugs. 
They're bringing crime. 
They're rapists. 
And some, I assume, are good people. 
But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting. 
And it only makes common sense. 
It only makes common sense. 
They're sending us not the right people. 
It's coming from more than Mexico. 
It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably — probably — from the Middle East. 
But we don't know. 
Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening. 
And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast. 
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. 
They've become rich. 
I'm in competition with them. 
They just built a hotel in Syria. 
Can you believe this? 
They built a hotel. 
When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. 
They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken. 
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has. 
And in 19 — and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever. 
But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East. 
Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. 
Think of it. 
Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league. 
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. 
We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. 
We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love — they're great — all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers. 
And we have nothing. 
We can't even go there. 
We have nothing. 
And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it. 
Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind for the enemy. 
2,000? 
You would say maybe two, maybe four? 
2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them. 
We need Trump now. 
You're right. 
We need Trump now. 
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of strength, right? 
But not for us. 
It was below zero. 
Whoever heard of this? 
It's never below zero. 
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. 
But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate. 
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. 
Don't believe the 5.6. 
Don't believe it. 
That's right. 
A lot of people up there can't get jobs. 
They can't get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. 
They all have jobs. 
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense. 
We want Trump now. 
Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. 
Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work. 
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. 
They don't know if it worked. 
And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, 
"That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. 
They don't know what they're doing. 
They don't know what they're doing." 
