Had a pouch, like, sorta like you've got. 
I carried it around. 
Well any rate, my wife had fallen in love, with a, Mexican artist by the name of Nierman. 
Forgot his first name. 
Jewish guy. 
Mm. 
Mexican national. 
His paintings sold, f- for generally, a thousand dollars plus, which was, for me — 
A lotta money in those days. 
Twenty-five years ago, I was — no way I was gonna spend twe- a thou- — 
First of all I didn't like him. 
Very splashy. 
Albert and Marcia had one of his paintings, they had — they had — I I don't know, Marcia had a relative in Mexico, or something. 
But they'd been down there, many times and, and they had his book, and, we got down there, and he was, uh, all over the place. 
His paintings were — he lived in Mexico City. 
And uh, we had a cab driver, uh, that was gonna take us to, wherever the place where the gold was. 
I can't remember, one of the roughest rides, and if you ever been to Mexico City, you made that ride. 
Yeah. 
Some kinda city, about hundred miles away, I thought we were gonna die going down there. 
An old car and, anyway. 
Well before that, he took us around the city, still got his card somewhere. 
Slammed the damn door on this guy, poor guy's hand one day, inadvertently. 
We were getting out, we had him about three days, one day we took him down to wherever we went. 
Buddy and Sue didn't go, but he took us to the ruins, and all that stuff. 
You know, uh, you know, I and I I knew then, and I know now, that those guys, take you to a particular place, they get a commission. 
Well, they took us to this guy's studio. 
He what? 
Took us to this guy – artist's studio. 
Uh, and uh, Rae, he was there. 
And she saw a painting she liked. 
And, uh, he wanted that damn recorder. 
And he said I tell you what I'll do, make you a deal. 
He said I'll — "you take this painting, I want that recorder, I'll take it." 
Could — naw I can't do that, it's not mine. 
It was — it's about a thousand dollar swap. 
Shit I thought my wife was gonna have a fit, she was pissed off. 
Mexico City was a, uh in those days, probably still is, not — 
For this guy he was very successful. 
Uh, very prolific. 
But it was an art colony, and there were a lot of Americans down there. 
He was not an American. 
A lot of Americans down there, uh because, cost of living was so cheap at the time. 
And they – they had these art shows everywhere. 
Well we bought a painting, uh, of a little Mexican woman, still got it, with a watermelon on her head, like it a lot. 
Think I paid thirty dollars for it. 
Well that was about my price range. 
Uh, while I was down there, we may have bought a couple of other i- inexpensive paintings, maybe collectively we bought, maybe spent a hundred and fifty dollars. 
Uh, hell I was not an art — we weren't art collectors. 
And uh, to spend a thousand dollars, to me for a painting, was unthinkable. 
Uh, the s- first painting I ever bought, my father-in-law bought it from Geri f-, Geri Rae, it was one of Geri's original early early paintings, which I thoroughly enjoy. 
She's changed styles but, while we were down there, uh — 
You know I — 
This — it — 
I've seen that somewhere before. 
You know I've had that painting for thirty-five years I guess. 
I – I've never framed it. 
And I really like it. 
Uh, my — my my father-in-law wanted to give me a painting for my — piece of art for my office. 
And so I had a — we had a display guy at the time, by the name of Ben Money, fashioned himself as an artist. 
And I said "Ben, pick me out something, you've got fifty bucks to spend." 
So, he got this from Geri, and I loved it. 
It's beautiful. 
And and, I can see all kinda things in it. 
It's got a lotta color and — 
Lotta color. 
I see a Chinese junk. 
At any rate, to make a long s- — this fellow LeRoy Neiman, over here. 
Sports artist. 
Not the same guy, as this guy Nierman. 
I've forgotten his name. 
Oh I thought there was a connection. 
No. 
No connection. 
K- there is a connection on the story. 
Well, we looked at a lot of art, in in in the, in the, uh parks, and there at least it was, pleasant weather and, like that uh, it was sorta like, uh. 
What the hell they call the district in New York, where on Sunday, they put all the artists, put their paintings out? 
Uh, the Village, the Village. 
The Village. 
You know all the all these artists put their — 
Well they had, must've had three areas like that. 
Parks with paintings, and my God, there must've been thousands of paintings. 
And uh, most of em, very inexpensive. 
Uh starving artists that were down there, lots of American. 
Well, uh, we wandered around down in the, the area which, I've forgotten the area that they called, in Mexico City where, uh, most of the jewelry shops are and things. 
It's got a name. 
I can't remember, I've never been back. 
They also had a lot of, uh, artist galleries down there. 
And I walked into this gallery, during one of our — we were down there maybe ten days. 
And I saw this guy Nierman. 
I never heard of him, at that time. 
He he he got famous at the nineteen, uh, probably seventy-two Olympics. 
Uh, but his c- — his art was already in collections of guys like Edward G. Robinson, it was very popular in Hollywood. 
He also was very prolific. 
Big handlebar mustache. 
And I walked in, and there must have been about, twelve or fifteen paintings in there. 
They were, uh — 
You walked into his studio, or — 
It was a gallery. 
Uh, he didn't live there. 
He didn't live in Mexico. 
Okay. 
The oth- th- the guy n- — th- the Jewish fellow. 
They're both Jewish. 
Okay. 
Th- th- this guy Nierman, who was a Mexican national, lived there. 
Okay. 
Forgotten his first name. 
Leonardo Nierman or something. 
But any rate, but uh, this guy's name was LeRoy Neiman, I'd never heard of him, well I'd heard of Nierman. 
Uh, because Rae went down there wanting to buy one of those paintings. 
These were paintings, which I'd say were about the size of this Joe Namath there, which is a seriograph. 
And, we went in, and uh, they were just back from Acapulco, season was just over in Acapulco. 
And he had about fifteen twenty paintings, twenty-five paintings, football players, horse races, that's what he did, they were about that size. 
I'd been in there, oh God I looked at em, they just struck me as something, I loved em. 
They were great. 
Cool. 
Alright folks. 
Well alreet, well alroot, well alright. 
By now I'm sure you're wondering about the different things that I have on the table here, but first, I would like to talk to you about these three items. 
I have here, some ice in a pan, water in this glass, and steam rising from this pot. 
Now, I would like to ask you, how these three things. 
Tell me please. 
How are they all alike. 
These three things. 
This ice here in this pan. 
This water in this glass, and the steam rising from this pot, just yell it out, we are informal here, yes. 
Correct. 
They are all forms of water. 
This ice here of course is water, I told you there was water in this glass, and you have all seen water boil at home, so you are familiar with steam. 
But now let's try to figure out how they're different, we'll look at temperature, first. 
And the temperature of this water here, the ice, is, about uh twenty-four – woo- nineteen degrees. 
Very cold. 
The temperature of this w- water here, is sixty-four degrees, the temperature of this steam, is, I know it's hotter than that. 
Yeah, it's about a hundred and eleven degrees. 
Okay. 
Fahrenheit. 
Okay. 
Oh, and by the way guys, what do we call something that's hard, like this ice here, or a table, or a rock? 
We call it a? 
Solid. 
Very good. 
You should g- — you should be a choir. 
You should go out on the road there, like, yeah. 
We are. 
Y- — oh well, I'm glad to meet you. 
Please give me your itinerary after the show. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Of course we call it a sholids. 
A solid. 
And a solid has one shape. 
The shape that it starts out with. 
And what do we call something that you — that you can splish splash? 
Take a bath in. 
Anything wet like soda or milk. 
Liquid. 
You're not gonna let me finish, are you? 
Yes, we call it a? 
Liquid. 
Very good. 
And a liquid can change its shape, to f- completely fill the bottom of whatever container you put it in. 
And finally, what do we call something that's loose, and floating around like this steam here? 
Or a cloud, or the air we breathe, we call it a? 
Gas. 
Correct. 
A gas. 
And a gas completely fills whatever shape container you put it in. 
And so, how do you get water to change, from a solid, to a liquid, to a gas, and back and forth? 
Add energy. 
Woo. 
I like the way he expressed that. 
Never before have I heard it, add or subtract energy, or, heat, change the temperature, basically. 
Correct? 
Alright. 
Well folks, now I'm going to show you something else that happens when you change the temperature, and that's where these balloons come in. 
I have here a number of balloons, but, l- let's see how many of these balloons, I can fit, into this little itty-bitty container here. 
Well, everybody count together. 
This would be ... 
There's a- in there. 
You think, well, okay, w- th- th-, I'm glad I never saw d- Citizen Kane with you. 
Rosebud is a sled. 
Okay. 
Well, let's all count together folks, that was? 
One. 
One. 
Very good. 
One balloon going into the little container here. 
And this would be ... 
Two. 
Two. 
Very good counting there. 
Two. 
Excellent. 
Two balloons going into the little container here. 
Ah, they're not fitting in so easily. 
Oh no. 
So hopefully I can fit all balloons into this little container here. 
Oh stop guessing at what this is. 
Let's have some suspense here. 
Come on. 
Alright. 
And this would be? 
Three. 
Three. 
Very good. 
Three balloons going onto the the little container there. 
Three balloons. 
Three, yes, the balloon trinity. 
And now, this would be? 
Eight. 
Four. 
Four. 
Very good. 
At first he was confused, but then he figured it out. 
Everybody tell him what this is, it's ... 
Seven. 
It's four. 
Boy you people didn't watch enough Sesame Street as a child. 
This would be? 
Five. 
Thank you very much, yes. 
Five swollen balloons. 
In. 
In. 
Down. 
Down. 
Ah, ah. 
Okay. 
And this would be? 
Six. 
Six, good. 
And let's do this uh, let's add some complexities to this here, let's do it in another language. 
In Spanish it would be? 
Ocho. 
Seis. 
S- seis. 
N- ocho. 
Oh my gosh. 
I'm afraid for our nation. 
Okay, well, and this would be? 
Siete. 
Thank you. 
Seven. 
Right? 
Seven. 
Okay. 
And finally, this would be? 
Eight. 
Ocho. 
Eight, or ocho in Spanish, and uh huit in French, thank you very much. 
I thought you were telling me your breakfast. 
What you had for b- — But no, huit. 
Very good. 
Oh my gosh, eight balloons into this little container here, I bet you're wondering r- how that happened. 
You popped two. 
There's a hole in it. 
Well, there's a hole, no, if you're thinking there's a hole, think again. 
Because, there's no hole in the counter at all. 
Pull em out. 
You slowed down the molecules, 
Well – la duh dah dih duh duh, you're getting a little ahead of me son. 
Let's all figure it out together. 
So you don't need to go borrow equipment from anybody, to to do the feet? 
Do the hooves? 
Well, we're gonna have to find somewhere, to get, something 
So, Mae – 
I'm gonna na 
Mae Lynne 
We're not gonna do the feet today, I'm gonna wait till like, early in the morning, to do those, cause y- I mean you get so tired. 
N- you just, it takes well, it takes me longer than most people, cause you know, I'm not as strong and, and I'm not as good, as like somebody that would do it all the time. 
You know. 
I mean, oh I mean I trim horses, and stuff like that, but I mean, I'm not like, I'm not uh,. 
I don't know how to say it. 
But you know, they do it for a living. 
You know, most people that you would get to trim your horse do it all the time. 
And I'm not that good or, and I'm not very strong. 
Did they train you — 
Yeah. 
Did they train you that — 
Yeah. 
Yeah. 
So you have your own equipment, but — 
No. 
I don't have my own equipment at all. 
Dad, you know, has done some of it. 
That's another thing too, is I kinda had a b- general idea, of kinda how to do it, just watching him. 
Or — and watching, people come to our place, and doing it and stuff you know. 
And, I don't know. 
Then, down there, um, it's mandatory. 
You have to — to graduate, you know, or well, to get the degree, you know, you have to take this class. 
And you can only take — if you want to, you can only take it for eight weeks. 
And, if you wanna go on in it, you n- — then, you can go on. 
You know. 
And I decided to go ahead and go on in it. 
And the first part of it, is like, well we have lecture, then we have lab. 
And like, the first part of it, we just go into the classroom, and he like ... 
In the beginning of the year there was a lot of classroom work. 
I mean, it — that's just kinda how it happens, you know, because he kinda has to tell you ... 
They go over the whole, the whole part of the horse. 
I mean, all the skeleton part of it you know, and — and they go through every kinda ligament. 
And I mean, there's, millions of ligaments, and millions of tendons, you know, well not millions, but, I mean ... 
Yeah, I bet. 
And then, so we had to know these tendons, and ligaments, and then, all the bones, and, you know, all the way up – from the shoulder down, and then from the hip down. 
You know, all the way down to the hoof, and then, the bone in the hoof, and, then all the wall, and, you know, of the hoof, and, what everything was called there, and then, he went over on how to trim it, and where you — 
Th- there's a white line, that you go by, and a horse has this little white line, and you clean it out with the — with the hoof knife. 
You know? 
And then there — and then you can see this little white line? 
And that's kinda where you go by, to — 
You know, the horse kinda helps you out, because it, has that little white line right there. 
Mhm. 
And that's where you kinda — kinda need a little guide, of where you trim. 
And, I am still scared to do it. 
Because, you know, I mean, you can make a horse go lame, by doing it. 
Really? 
Well you can trim em too short. 
And make em, you know, and they're just a little bit, for f- the first couple of days, you know, I mean they're just sore. 
That's not bad, but sometimes you can get it really bad. 
You can really make a horse really bad. 
And they m- 
You know then, they have to, like, keep em, away from anything, you know, get em really in the soft ground, and, no hard pebbles, or hard clods of dirt or anything? 
So, I don't know. 
I'm a little scared about doing it yet. 
You know, I get em really long. 
I mean they're still long, when I get done with them. 
A lot of times, like, I'll get done, and I'll think I'm done, and I'll look at – look down at the horse's hoof, and it's still, it's too long. 
And then like, I would never, ever, ever, trust myself, to shoe a horse. 
See we did that too. 
We did — we did a lot of stuff. 
We did a lot of stuff with the — like we had the, um, the burners? 
You know, and you'd put the — you'd have — you started out with the straight iron? 
You know? 
And you'd stick it into the, into the, you know like, actual blacksmithing. 
And you'd put it into the hot coals, you know? 
And then, we'd — I I – straight bar. 
And we'd make it a — a horseshoe out of it, you know? 
But, these shoes we never did put on a horse. 
We just put the shoes that were already made, on a horse. 
And that's as far as we got. 
I mean, if you would really get into it, well as a matter of fact, this is really funny. 
You know, there isn't really any girl farriers around anywhere. 
They're really — 
Farrier? 
Th- – yeah. 
Farrier is what they're called. 
And the m- — the reason they were showing us this at college, was just, to get us, to know if our trimmer, and shoer was doing it right, and — plus the knowledge of knowing the bones and ligaments. 
Which we, we had it in another class too. 
We — that was kind of a double thing that, we had in — in another class, so it was kinda review for us. 
Well it was a review for some people, depending on what time of the year you took it. 
You know. 
If it was a review or not. 
But, anyway, um, what was I gonna say? 
I forgot what I was think- — 
You said you never made the horseshoes. 
Gonna say. 
But. 
Well, w- um, when we put em on a horse's hoof, all we do, they're already made. 
They're round. 
We pick out a size. 
You know we'd like look at the horse's hoof, and say, okay, this is a double-aught. 
This is an aught. 
This is, you know. 
What s- — what size. 
And double-aught and aught, are the ones that are most popular. 
For, you know, the light horse. 
You know, I mean, you get into the big horses, the — like the Clydesdales, Shires, that's a d- — a whole different thing. 
Or ponies, that's a whole different thing. 
But we're talking just the regular, light horses you know. 
That's to Judy. 
You probably have one like it already. 
I don't know. 
I don't know. 
They show the uh –, some are l- lent, and some are — are gifts. 
To a museum. 
Oh. 
Oh yeah. 
Back here it tells you. 
Mhm. 
Where they came from. 
Oh Mom. 
Oh no, I don't have this one. 
Oh good. 
Joseph Campbell? 
Mhm. 
Oh yeah. 
Oh this'll be great. 
He's wonderful, hunh. 
I mean, he – he's dead now. 
Yeah. 
He died. 
Oh, this is great. 
Joseph Campbell. 
I'm just interested in when did she get that. 
Oh I got lot of these presents, you know, just along the way. 
Yeah. 
That's — on the way. 
Cause I don't wait till Christmas to buy everything. 
There are there are mysteries in this house that I'm not even aware of. 
Okay. 
Well – 
Open this one. 
From the gel- uh the elves. 
Oh, to Dan? 
Sa- me too. 
To Dan from Santa. 
Mhm. 
Oh. 
And this one is, to Dad, From Judy. 
Oh. 
Guess what that is! 
Oh, guess what! 
That is Dad. 
Oh. 
Okay. 
Look up. 
Look up babe. 
Wait. 
I would've had trouble figuring out what this one is. 
There we go. 
Okay. 
Now it — shall we wait to uh — 
Wait. 
Wait. 
There's another one for Dad down there. 
That red one. 
Oh. 
Yeah. 
Oh Dad, from Judy. 
Oh wow. 
Oh, alright. 
Just what you've always needed. 
You must've seen my other one. 
My other one is tearing, and falling apart. 
Oh yeah? 
I've only had it for at least twelve years. 
Probably more. 
Probably more like fifteen years. 
Good. 
I'm gonna go transfer the keys into this one. 
Oh great. 
Oh, this is good. 
Look, it's a bread baking pan. 
Oh alright. 
Yeah this is — this is great. 
Now, That's from Mrs. Santa. 
You can bake bread in that. 
Oh, this is great. 
Stainless steel? 
Hmm? 
Yep. 
Stai- – 
Stainless, unhunh. 
Oh. 
Well? 
You'd better wear it too. 
Uh-oh. 
You'd better wear it. 
Gosh. 
Hmm? 
Look at this. 
Oh wow. 
If you don't, I will. 
Yeah, now that I can wear. 
Will you? 
Yeah. 
Cause I know you don't wear sweatshirts. 
She's been saying for months that you would never wear it. 
If he doesn't — 
I'll — 
I will. 
I'll at least wear it once. 
I hope you like yellow. 
I have one the same. 
You do? 
I — I shrunk it down already. 
Yeah. 
Cause it was really huge. 
When I bought it. 
But, I thought that's the largest size they have. 
So. 
That's big enough. 
Wow look at this! 
That big enough? 
Yeah. 
Thank you very much. 
Yeah. 
It'll keep you warm. 
Looks good on you. 
There might be a little conflict of interest. 
Mhm. 
That it doesn't say Stanford over here. 
But the — 
Aw, so what. 
That's great. 
Oh. 
Thanks Judy. 
Oh that's — 
Well thanks for this. 
This is — 
Oh, you needed that, huh? 
Yeah. 
I'll make good use of this. 
Mm. 
Okay. 
Mm. 
Okay now. 
Now what. 
Um. 
In fact, what I'll do, is I will take this sweater off, and put the — 
Oh yeah. 
That's a great idea. 
Well whose — 
That one's to Dad. 
What hon? 
Isn't it? 
That's — 
Yeah. 
From me. 
Oh. 
I don't know if he wanted to open that or not, or not right now. 
You wanna open this one from me? 
Right uh now? 
Or late- — 
Wait till later. 
I'll wait till later. 
You know what it is? 
Okay. 
Yeah, he picked it out. 
Yeah. 
Well Dad always picks. 
I get a little picky on my shirts. 
Yeah, I know. 
People decide to — 
If it's too small, Mom can take it. 
No, it's not too small. 
It's perfect. 
Is it too big? 
Hm-m. 
Get you some tights to go underneath it. 
Been having too much of that rum fruitcake, kid. 
Oh is it? 
Down at the back. 
Is it? 
Hm. 
Oh good. 
Yeah. 
Fits good. 
Is it — 
D- is it too small? 
No, no. 
I still got room for another ten pounds. 
Good. 
You look good in it. 
Now let me take a picture. 
Yeah. 
I might just even wear that to work. 
Without a tie. 
Okay. 
I think you'll have to wait on that one. 
There. 
Got a good photo. 
Alright. 
Okay. 
Are all the rest of these from Diana? 
Uh, to Diana, and from — from Diana. 
T- what? 
To D- — 
T- – what? 
To Diana, and from Diana. 
Oh. 
Oh I see. 
So I thought we'd wait, to open her gifts and — 
And our gifts to her. 
Yeah. 
Uh, she can — 
She can't open em till she gets here. 
So, we'll just wait, on ours. 
Oh here's one you can open. 
Oh. 
Well, who's this from? 
Now you can open that. 
Right now. 
To Judy, from Mom. 
Mhm. 
So Erasmus laid the the — laid the egg, which Luther hatched. 
And um, when you come then, to, uh, however this debate. 
This freedom of the will. 
Um, I think uh, let me read you a page from Brendler. 
Because it sets the sa- stage very nicely. 
This is in the Luther book some of you are reading, and um, if you, this evening when you go home, if you wanna meditate it on more, on – on it more, it's on page three eleven. 
It's on page three eleven. 
But, let me just read you the –, cause this gives us the setting very nicely, and then we can uh, Erasmus entitled his anti-Luther pamphlet, Diatribe Concerning Free Will. 
Once again, the first and fundamental questions, disputed in fifteen sixteen, and fifteen seventeen, and again in Heidelberg, in April of fifteen eighteen, with which Luther had opened the assault on scholastic theology, were debated. 
Luther was glad to take up the theme of this debate. 
And this is what Luther writes to Erasmus. 
You alone, among all the others, have recognized the key question. 
And you do not bore me, with the Papacy, purgatory, indulgences, and similar nonsense. 
You, and you alone, have identified that on which all else hinges. 
And you have put the razor to the throat. 
And for that I thank you heartily. 
Um, thus Luther evalu- uh evaluated the subject. 
And Erasmus commented on the significance of their engagement, in battle, in his own style. 
And he wrote to Luther. 
Perhaps an Erasmus who writes against you, will do more for the Gospel, than certain dunderheads who support you. 
And then, humanistic thinking, will never consent. 
This is Brendler now, obs- – uh on this uh, but this sets the stage for what we're gonna talk about. 
Humanistic thinking will never consent to the doctrine of original sin. 
Pico de la Mirandela would not have consented to the doctrine of original sin. 
The author of uh, what is it, Houseman I think, of Invictus. 
I am the master of my fate, 
I am the captain of my soul. 
I don't think that he would acknowledge original sin. 
Is based uh, alright, what is it, it's based, as it is, on the concept, that human nature is totally depraved, and of itself not capable of any good will. 
And that apart from grace alone, free will is nothing, can do nothing, does nothing, except depraved deeds. 
Even though these pronouncements are Biblically based, and may be acceptable within an exclusively theological system, they do not appear reconcilable with the dignity of man- – dignity of man. 
Catholic, and semi-pelagianism, with all of its emphasis on on the role of prevenient grace, finally views free will as the decisive factor in attaining salvation, thereby conceptualizing free will, as similar to a healthy man- – healthy human understanding. 
For how can a person, be responsible for his deeds, if he possesses no free will? 
This is what Erasmus asked. 
How can he decide between good and evil? 
So reasoned Erasmus. 
Such arguments, long known to Luther, and many times presented to him, impressed him not in the least. 
God alone is salvation. 
God alone measures guilt. 
He alone condemns. 
He alone grants grace. 
Justifies and saves. 
When he will, and whom he will. 
Man can do nothing against the divine prerogative. 
Man can only accept the divine judgment. 
This is in fact best. 
And if by — and — and it is by the divine prerogative, that man will — uh, that man is well provided for. 
For God alone is infallible, and his being is grace and mercy. 
This concept, that man is divinely elected to salvation, or to damnation, is the center of the predestination dogma, that later, the Geneva reformer Calvin, made the center of his teaching, and that subsequently, under other historical preconditions and circumstances, could be linked closely with a prosperous middle class, in the Netherlands, and in England. 
Um, uh, skip this paragraph. 
This is the paragraph though. 
Right here, the next one, p- on page three twelve, when you, when you read – if you wanna read it later. 
Therefore, Luther did not accept rational arguments against predestination doctrine. 
Such arguments, on the contrary, necessarily appeared to Luther, given his theological orientation, as suspicious, from the very start, because they originated from human nature, which exalted itself against God. 
The whore reason prefers to submit to the Devil, adjusts to all situations, and proves everything, that is demanded of her. 
Human nature, does not possess free will. 
It is like a horse, ridden by God or the Devil. 
The rider possesses the will. 
The horse obeys. 
Well that's as clear as you can get it. 
Human nature is like a horse, ridden by God or the Devil. 
The rider possesses free will. 
The horse obeys. 
Alright that, th- now the debate is joined you see. 
And as you come — as Erasmus comes to this, he's going to say, well let's look at the Scriptures. 
Now, number one, we have to admit first – v- first off, that there seem to be passages, there are passages in the Scriptures. 
Are there not? 
Many. 
Which seem to teach, that man is responsible for his deeds, and that he may act, and has a free will to respond to the invitation of God. 
Isn't that clear in the Scriptures? 
Whosoever will may come. 
Um, Jesus turned to his disciples, you remember, when some deserted him, and seemed, because they were disappointed in some of his sayings, and they were offended by some of the things he said, and they walked no longer with him it said. 
And then he turned to those who remained, and he said, will ye also go away? 
They had a choice. 
Didn't they? 
Will you go away? 
What do you will? 
And the will, apparently was, re- resided in in these disciples. 
And so Erasmus is going to say, so obviously, in Scripture we have paradox. 
We have clear passages of Scripture, which seem to indicate that man has a free will, and that he can exercise that will, to follow, or not to follow. 
To respond or not to respond. 
On the other hand, we have passages of Scripture, which seem to indicate, that the will is not free, and that the –, and that man i- th- is – man is predestined by a an omnipotent sovereign will of God. 
Yeah. 
Do they have any kids? 
Hm-m. 
Have they been married a long time? 
I don't think Kathy can have kids, she's got a bad back. 
It sounds bad to me. 
She couldn't – she couldn't carry Laura. 
She had to be – Laura – She could hold her. 
As long as she didn't get up. 
Really? 
Yeah sh- she weighed all of ten pounds you know. 
She's all, heavy. 
She could – 
Well, maybe she does have quite a problem. 
M-mm. 
Some people d- could. 
I suppose. 
I mean, it's not impossible. 
Yeah. 
But – 
Tend to believe it's not as bad as sh- th- – 
How long have they been married? 
Um, Year and a half? 
I think, and, two years in November. 
Mm. 
What's Bill doing now? 
Hm. 
What are we in the process of? 
Your Bill. 
Not Bill Wilson. 
My Bill? 
Um, yesterday he was a carpenter. 
Your – 
He was a carpenter? 
Yeah he put a floor in a barn. 
Oh really? 
He put a floor in a barn. 
Well, he just fixed it, it had had one, and he was just replacing old rotten board. 
Oh. 
And stuff. 
I don't know what he's doing today. 
He was supposed to start baling hay, but I think they're gonna let it sit another day, cause he didn't take his lunch. 
What does he do when he doesn't take his lunch, come home? 
No Doris feeds him. 
Eats there. 
Hm. 
Would she feed him every day? 
Now explain all of this. 
I don't understand what not taking his lunch has to do with baling hay. 
Well if he was gonna bale hay, they wouldn't come in for lunch. 
They would just eat – 
While they're out there. 
Out there. 
Out in the field. 
I see. 
Yeah. 
Okay. 
If he didn't take his lunch every day, would she feed him every day? 
Yeah, she does. 
Feed him. 
I mean – well, when they're in the field, he has to take his lunch. 
That's just part of the deal. 
But – 
Otherwise he'll starve. 
Right? 
No, otherwise he doesn't get lunch. 
Well I know, that's what starving is. 
Actually, I think that if she found out he come and didn't have a lunch, she'd fix him one. 
Mm. 
Cause that's what she does with other people. 
Mm. 
But all winter she fixes him lunch. 
Oh, cause they're always close enough to – 
Actually it's more of a dinner, because it's – 
No lemon. 
I will go get you another one. 
N- that's alright. 
She just remembered. 
No, it's okay. 
Soon as I sat it down – sat it down I thought, no lemon. 
I knew it. 
Just – 
It – 
There's not enough lemon there to bother me. 
Thank you. 
Okay. 
But it tastes so good with lemon in it. 
I don't even like ice tea. 
Do you like hot tea? 
Yeah, I love hot tea. 
But the winter hasn't blasted cold enough for me yet. 
Do you put lemon in your hot tea? 
I'm going to today, cause I have a sore throat. 
Moi? 
Or toi? 
Well I answered – 
Schwa. 
I assumed it was me. 
I was talking to Beth, because she had the lemon. 
And the hot tea. 
I get it. 
Which you don't have. 
I get it, yeah. 
Oh I know. 
So what about you, Sherry, are you gonna put lemon in your hot tea? 
I don't put lemon in my hot tea, 
You ever do? 
I only do when I have a sore throat. 
I usually d- have, yeah, that's good. 
Lemon, or lemon and honey is good. 
Yeah? 
Now you won't be able to touch Jonathan. 
Just don't tell him. 
Because you're drinking lemon and honey? 
She's got a sore throat. 
No, because I have a cold. 
Oh. 
Well – 
Don't tell him, or don't tell Carolyn. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. 
And – 
Just don't tell him, 
Martha Jean sat there – 
And – 
And told all about how, sick Barbara Jean was, when she was tiny, and – 
And? 
That helped a lot, didn't it. 
Oh, Martha Jean, yeah. 
And what? 
Well, Carolyn was – 
I don't get it. 
Cause – 
I loved the little bit about the potty training. 
Eight months old and potty trained. 
She always says that. 
Oh my gosh. 
She told me the story of how uh, she trained all her kids by nine months. 
I'd – 
Well what was it? 
Now it's gotten back to eight, hunh? 
Oh Barb was at eight. 
Yeah, the boys weren't but – 
Oh well. 
They only – They didn't make it till nine. 
Who – who was it that's – 
Hunh? 
You know boys are slow? 
Yeah I know. 
That said that, that's not potty training, that's mother training. 
Oh yeah. 
Doctor Spock. 
Doctor Spock. 
How about Captain Kirk? 
What did he say? 
No no Sherry. 
You're an idiot. 
She's trying. 
It's Mister Spock, and Cap- 
I know. 
And Doctor Spock. 
Well, what was her story about Barb? 
That everyone – That was – 
She was in the hospital three times. 
Carolyn was so affected by, or unaffected or whatever. 
With asthmatic bronchitis. 
With bron- — 
And so, how did Carolyn react? 
Well – 
I – for some reason – 
She said thanks a lot, you know, because she was so worried about Jonathan. 
Oh sh- like oh, he's gonna go back again in other words. 
I said but – 
And then she told her that, she didn't outgrow it until she was five or something? 
She didn't have what? 
We are all going "Barb didn't outgrow it?". 
Oh "outgrow it". 
She was five or something? 
Mm. 
Oh. 
So Carolyn was really happy. 
So, yeah because C- – 
Like "oh this is great news". 
So then I said, "but look at Barb, she's healthy now", and Carolyn looked at her, and sort of looked away, and I thought, oh boy. 
Rude. 
Way to go Carolyn. 
He's teething. 
You should have heard him, the night we took him to the emergency room. 
He sounded worse. 
I pr- if I know, I would probably've been totally freaked out. 
That's scary. 
Maybe it's good he didn't stay with me. 
I'd have been like Michael. 
Scary. 
Yeah, he – he was um – 
I'd be like Mom, uh, what should we do with this child. 
Well his temperature was a hundred and four point five. 
That is so high. 
He's lucky that he didn't – 
How long was he there? 
That high? 
How long, do you know? 
Uh his fever? 
Yeah. 
I don't know. 
That's dangerou- – I mean s- – 
Cause he could have, brain damage. 
The doctor said – the doctor said that th- um, his pediatrician, cause I asked him about it, and he said that they don't hospitalize until they go up to like a hundred and seven. 
And that's where it's fatal. 
And I was like, well, you know – 
What about brain damage? 
That doesn't matter or? 
Mmm. 
Excuse me brain damage is important to me. 
He said actually fevers are – 
How did he explain it? 
He said something like, feathers – fevers are like, um, good for babies like, when they're i- b- getting sick, because they help the immune system fight harder. 
Somehow. 
I don't know. 
Well that's what the – I mean that's what – 
The reason the body gets that hot, is like to kill the germs or whatever I think. 
Isn't that part of it? 
Yes Doctor Kevin, tell. 
No I'm pretty – I'm pretty sure, I'm pretty sure that's part of it, but uh it's just that you have to watch out, cause then, if it gets too hot it's bad for the brain. 
It's like a car, it overheats. 
And stalls out. 
Maybe, I don't – I – I'm not sure. 
Are you gonna stall out Jito? 
Don't stall out on us. 
Who's all the babinos? 
I know the one in the lower right. 
Which one? 
This one is mine. 
I recognize him alr- – 
Issac. 
That's the one that's ten days older than – 
That's Michael's – those are Michael's nephews – 
Jose – 
That's Jose – 
Jose and then – 
And then Gino's the one in the middle. 
Gino is in the middle. 
That's his sister. 
Aw he's a bit older. 
Right? 
Yeah he's three. 
He doesn't look that – 
He's o- he's three. 
Is he talking any more? 
Is he talking good now? 
You can't understan- – he – you can but, then you can't, sometimes, some of the things he says. 
Does he talk big long things but you just can't understand em? 
No, he's okay then. 
A gestalt kid. 
He's a gestalt child. 
No there's two different wa- – 
Yeah, psychotherapist. 
No no no no no no n- no no n- no. 
It's just two different ways. 
Like, kids can either like, they'll say one word, but they'll say it really, like pretty clear, and that the way they're th- they'll have like twenty words or whatever, and they'll just ask for one thing. 
And then there's other kids who go, na-na-na-na-za-ba-da? 
And there'll be a word in there somewhere? 
And there's a – 
Oh! 
Don't freak out. 
Are you okay? 
Cause I tickled his feet. 
It's all my fault. 
Give him a drink. 
It's he drinks too fast. 
It just went down the wrong pipe. 
You need to burp? 
It wasn't that bad. 
Oh, really sorry. 
But um, anyways. 
So it's just a d- like a different style. 
A lot of air. 
I sorry. 
They're allowed to do it either way. 
They're allowed. 
No no no no. 
Which way you gonna do? 
Is he a righ- are you a righty? 
You're a righty. 
It's funny cause, h- he'll be like, he'll get up in the morning, he'll sit in front of the TV with his bottle in one hand, just watching TV, like half asleep, you know, he's a – 
I'm like, go- – 
While ago he was here – 
If you lay – 
And he was watching the football game – 
Like his grandpa. 
That's low, Issac – 
He was watching the football game – 
Bottle in one hand, half asleep, watching TV. 
That's low. 
This picture. 
Thanks a lot, you witch. 
What? 
You witch. 
It's true. 
Aw. 
Jito. 
you're dwibbling. 
Dwibbling? 
Uh dwibbling. 
Gross. 
Um. 
Oh. 
Try not to spit all over here. 
Baby slobber, ew. 
You seen it was gross. 
Michael, Michael's shirt was all wet, from right here, from him just drooling. 
It was – 
Probably he was opening – 
And we took him to the – 
Breathing through his mouth more, cause he couldn't breathe through his nose at – 
Mm. 
And then he couldn't even breathe, he had, um, they had this thing, it was this big old long old tube. 
Here. 
And it was funny, like, we could – 
They put a mist – 
Child, you're having problems. 
You know, I remember, m – back in the psychedelic days, there was this poster of the scientist. 
I've always been on a, kind of a crusade, for scientific uh, responsibility. 
Right? 
And scientists are, are taking such control over the world these days, uh with their n-, you know, not the scientists, but what they've invented. 
And the way it's marketed, and the way we're d- — we develop needs for it. 
And I remember this pf- cartoon I saw w-, of, of, it was called The Scientist. 
And it had this, this wonderful stone statue, about twenty stories tall, of a naked man, and a naked woman, intertwined with each other, hugging each other, full frontal, and their arms wrapped around each other, and then they s- — they – they looked like they were so intertwined, and they spiraled down and, and they're a s- — they're a statue. 
Right. 
Hm. 
Made out of stone. 
And they're and the whole base of the statue is crumbling. 
Right? 
And it's just like rubble, f- like from, just below the knees, down, was just kind of rubble. 
But the rest of it was all real clear, a few ottle- — some of it was chipped off, you know, it was old but, and d- — and down at the bottom, of this, this rubble, was this little man who was a scientist. 
And he had this big magnifying glass. 
And he was looking at the rubble. 
Looking with his head down. 
Hm. 
Not looking up at the statue, and seeing the love, and the the – the – symbol there, but looking down at the crumbs, you know. 
Hm. 
At the rubble at the bottom. 
With his magnifying glass. 
And, and, to me that, that always symbolized, kind of rather clearly, the limitations of the scientific method. 
Well. 
Whi- — if it doesn't take into account the to- — the the the whole human experience, and, including, the unbelievable parts of it. 
The parts that are just legend. 
And myth. 
And, and uh, alluded to. 
You mean the theories. 
And, and the psychedelic experiences, and the subjective. 
Oh, on that side. 
You know, and insanity, and, what, I mean. 
Well. 
You know they — they've got to take ac- into account, uh, the East, with all its, with all its fantastic discoveries. 
But, you can't — but you can't look at the stars with a microscope. 
And science is a microscope. 
Each p- scientist has their, their field of um, expertise, and if they're gonna go, if they're gonna stretch out far enough into the — the unknown where they can find something new, they have to do it in a straight line. 
They can't do it in all directions at once. 
That's true. 
Because then you run into things that we already know. 
So the problem is communication between s- — 
But they're doing it, they're doing it with mathematics. 
Right? 
I mean. 
Well. 
N- no. 
But the comm-, problem is, communication between the branches of science. 
Mhm. 
I think. 
That's true. 
Cause, who's gonna be able to hold, all that knowledge, and make the connections? 
Well, the philosophers, and the spiritual leaders, and, I mean, cause, f- the stuff can be understand, understood. 
The goals. 
Those people can tell you. 
Or the, or the cutting — cutting edge, can be understand — understood intellectually. 
But those people can't tell you the details. 
They know the whole structure, but see. 
Well the — 
It's like both sides. 
You have to have somebody looking at the details. 
Ya got to have a leader. 
And somebody looking at the — 
And you got to have, a bunch of workers. 
You know? 
Yeah. 
And you gotta have somebody. 
Right. 
Who d- isn't necessarily inclined to deal with the details that much, who's guiding, those who are willing to sit there. 
I guess that's the problem. 
And make all the — 
We don't have a guider. 
Yeah. 
There's no l-, there's no lead, or there's no focus. 
Yeah. 
That's right. 
And — and uh, you know, I think, I think that, one of the reasons that there's been no focus is because, oh, everybody accepted the scientific method as the best tool that we have, and was kinda letting the scientific method be the — be the leader. 
Mhm. 
The — the – w- you know, just continue inventorying and — 
Well those people who are doing research. 
Continue inventorying, cataloging, experimenting. 
You know, documenting, uh, uh, whatever. 
And, instead of, instead of uh, uh coming at it from another direction. 
Trying to find, trying to find, uh, trying to find ways to, to, like with with Einstein for example, you know, uh, it seemed to me, he was trying to f- — t- he was exper- experimenting with, with new ways of doing things, you know. 
Well thinking about things. 
Oh — uh and thinking about things, and he was trying to — he w- — I think he was ultimately trying to, trying to discover the speed of his own thought. 
Hm. 
You know, I mean, he was like, really off into wonderful abstract notions, that were all based in a peaceful world. 
You know? 
That couldn't exist unless he was secure that we had a peaceful world or that that peace was part of it. 
Of what he was about. 
And, so much of today's technology is soulless and has nothing to do with peace. 
It has to do with, just generally, chewing up, you know, consumerism basically and —. 
Mhm. 
Chewing up — ch- n- — j- – chewing up new w- — uh, chewing up the human experience, and turning it into, some kind of consumer need. 
Here's a nice place to put my shoes. 
Yeah there it is. 
Mom look. 
Unhunh what? 
Look at my shoes. 
They look like the phantom stair-steppers. 
Hunh. 
No-no, it looks like the Invisible Man. 
It does look like the Invisible Man. 
Oh-ho burp. 
That felt good. 
Wasn't there a guy called the Invisible Man? 
Yes there was. 
Was he in a movie? 
Yes he was. 
What was it called? 
The Invisible Man. 
It was kind of a show kinda like The Shadow was. 
You know it was a — actually though, I think they made a remake of it, with Chevy Chase, that was really lousy though. 
Steven, you know what you could do that would be just really helpful? 
Say it. 
You could p- take these Coke cans, and put them in the bag full of Coke cans that are in your bedroom, and then we can do can squish. 
And squish em. 
For the recycling bin. 
Okay? 
Tomorrow please, my feet are hurting. 
Tomorrow? 
Well can you just put em in the bag, in there for now, okay? 
Okay. 
Cause I gotta clean up in here, this place is just totally trashed, cause I've done nothing this week but study and be sick. 
I've got a really bad dental problem. 
Or something with my mouth. 
Poor mom. 
Think I've got a sinus infection or something. 
Don't Steven. 
Mmkay. 
Please, I know it's tempting. 
What I'd like you to do is put those cans away please. 
Where — where — oh there they are. 
Yeah, there they are. 
A one. 
A two. 
Let's make the statue of Hamburger City. 
Mm. 
The statue of Coke. 
Yeah. 
The swinging barn. 
You're just a swinging kid Steve. 
Yeah, you don't know the half of it. 
I don't know the half of it, do I? 
Yeah, oh man. 
Hey Steve, why don't you give your iguana a little bit of banana too? 
He'd probably really like some. 
He'd probably really like some banana. 
Thanks for mom. 
Oh and I think this is Robbie's shirt, and his uh, Harley-Davidson scarf. 
Right? 
Hmm? 
Isn't that Robbie's shirt, and uh Harley-Davidson scarf from this summer? 
I wanted to give that back to them, tomorrow, when we go over for his birthday. 
I need to get Robbie a um present too. 
Yeah, what do you think he'd like to have? 
I'm not sure, but we could go over to Toys 'R' Us. 
It seems to me I brought the Toys 'R' Us catalog back with me. 
It's right over there. 
Okay. 
It's over there. 
Why don't you have a look at it, and see if anything comes to mind, for something you think Robbie would like to have, for his birthday. 
Well I have some things in here for Christmas. 
Yeah, I know you probably see things in there that you want for Christmas, but right now we're thinking about him and his birthday. 
Okay. 
And I gotta s- get started on this chicken pizza or, if anybody actually takes me up on this and comes. 
There's coupons in here too mom. 
So mom there's coupons in here, so we can get some things. 
Mhm, Really? 
Yeah. 
Are they good things? 
Yeah. 
And there's um, also, there's also a Nickelodean free, um box there. 
Really. 
And it's a bowl with goodies and coupons. 
Oh wow. 
And that's why I wanna get that. 
I know something that Robbie may like. 
Let me try to find it. 
Yeah unhunh? 
It's a Yack Pack. 
Is that um, full of yucky stuff? 
Or what? 
No. 
Are you sure? 
No. 
It's kinda like a tape recorder. 
Oh, it is. 
See you um, like, you tape record your dad saying, clean your room. 
Unhunh. 
And then there's this girl on TV, and you play it, and it s- and the girl says, clean your room. 
So is it kinda like one of those Talkboys, like that was in —? 
Yeah. 
What do you call it, what was that — how much would something like that cost? 
Um, let me look for it. 
It's in here. 
Cause I circled it. 
Okay it costs, nine ninety-nine. 
Are you sure? 
Yeah. 
that's it. 
Well we could probably afford that, hunh? 
Oh wait a minute. 
I think it says twelve ninety-nine. 
Twelve ninety-nine? 
Thirteen. 
Come over here and look. 
Alright. 
Hang on just a second honey. 
And — I think it says, it says th-, twelve ninety-nine, and then right here it says Yack Pack, nine ninety-nine. 
Ah. 
Maybe it means Yack Pack one, and this is Yack Pack two. 
Yack — Yack Pack two. 
Two. 
Unhunh. 
Yeah. 
Hunh. 
Should we get it? 
I don't know. 
Why don't we go to Toys 'R' Us tomorrow, and we'll uh — 
Look for it. 
Research it. 
We'll see. 
There's also a um — 
What it says they are there. 
Yeah it does. 
And there's — 
Cause I really don't know, it's hard to tell you know, if I can afford it, unless I know exactly what the price is on it. 
There's also some movies I want. 
Really? 
And what are those? 
Like Batman Forever. 
Mhm. 
And The Santa Clause. 
With Tim Allen. 
Who was it who was saying they were gonna buy the movie Casper the Ghost today? 
Was that Jack? 
Zach. 
Yeah. 
Ah. 
And — and mom, you know what the fun, the f- it's kind of l- a game, except um you, you ask your cosmic questions, oja? 
Oija? 
Unhunh. 
Ouija. 
Ouija. 
Yeah like a Ouiji — we used to call em Ouija boards. 
Oh god my head hurts. 
Did you like it? 
Oh. 
Hunh? 
Did you like it? 
Yeah I used to love Ouija boards when I was a little girl. 
I thought they were really fun. 
Course we always asked em questions we already knew the answer to. 
Like what, your homework? 
Oh man. 
I feel like my brains are gonna come out. 
Like that? 
Hunh? 
Like man, my brains feel like they're gonna come out? 
Well, I've either got a sinus — really bad sinus infection, or I've got an impacted tooth, or something. 
But my — my head hurts all the way up my nose and, my teeth hurt and, basically I just, am a mess babe. 
You don't know the half of it. 
Mhm. 
Yeah. 
Okay, so a recheck would be about that much with the x-rays, and then — 
Mhm. 
Does that sound right? 
Thirty-two — 
I think if we — she woke up, we could w- send her home tonight. 
I wouldn't see why we couldn't send her home tonight, would you? 
If she wakes up, fine. 
Oh well, we're gonna be Biotaling her and oh — 
Sh- if she — she probably won't though. 
Never mind. 
Never mind. 
I was thinking, I'm still thinking — 
Jeez. 
Na. 
Na na, na na na. 
And she won't have any an- antibiotics, cause there's no break. 
No. 
And that — 
Thirty-two. 
What is this? 
Ten, for anesthesia. 
Oh. 
But, they're opposite. 
They're still opposite. 
Yeah, that looks alright. 
Don't you think we should charge them an extra eighteen? 
For the distemper vaccine? 
Trent does it. 
No. 
I felt horrible doing that on that eye dog that he had in here last week, under whatever night it was. 
Cause he had down twenty-five plus eighteen, and what can you do, when he's already got it down? 
Jeez. 
Well, well, all we did — I can't do that, cause all we did was, I was in here and put a bandage on. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. 
Um, did you get hold of Dan then? 
Yeah. 
Let's see. 
Six, fifty-six. 
Let me see, let me see. 
We need one of these and one of these, one of those, and one of those, and two of those. 
Three, fifty-three. 
Sent home with Amoxi, and Pred, so, we'll see how — 
Yeah. 
Well, I'll call him probably late this afternoon, to make sure he's alright. 
Calculator? 
No, I was just trying to figure out what we spent already. 
Mm. 
Mm. 
Let's see, we've already spent fifty for him, and I want him to spend another hundred. 
Well — 
But that's better than pins, and surgery. 
Right, which would be another two hundred or — 
Yeah, it's more for a surgery. 
To spend. 
Any — pretty much any time you can — 
And that one really, you know, I don't think it would benefit from pins. 
M-m. 
Because we'd have to undo it. 
I mean we'd have to, well, we'd have to go — 
We could — we could try it closed. 
Mhm. 
But, still, it's more expensive. 
I think it'll do fine with a cast, especially since it's a spiral fracture. 
And it's not displaced. 
And it's not displaced. 
Should be pretty stable. 
It'll be kind of a pain getting the — well, maybe not, getting the cast over the stifle? 
Maybe not. 
Got kinda long legs. 
Well, as long as she's — as long as she's quiet. 
Okay, I'll give him a call. 
I don't know if he's in the barn, from home. 
In back in from the barn yet or not. 
Well — 
Called both the house number and the barn number, and both of em, and, a little kid answered. 
Mm, yeah and they're little little kids too. 
Mhm? 
They're like 'I'm three.' 
Yeah Carol? 
It's Marcia. 
Hi. 
Um, we got x-rays done already, and, I was gonna let you know what, what was going on. 
Should I talk to Richard or are you okay? 
Okay. 
Um, it looks like she's got a spiral fracture, of um, of her tibia, which is the bone between the knee and the hock, and, um, it's f- it's really looks, pretty stable. 
It's not displaced very far anyway, and it's um, pretty much, you know, locked in place, so to speak. 
Um, so I think that she would, she would do fine with a cast. 
Um, and, I pretty much got an estimate so far, with the, coming in yesterday, and the x-rays and everything, the bill was about fifty-four. 
And to do a cast, um, with the anasthesia, and staying one more night in the hospital and stuff, and then the casting material, probably the — 
It's gonna be about a hundred and fifty-three, total. 
And, the only, then it would be, the only extra would be, in about six to eight weeks, we'd have her come in again, we would tranquilize her, and take the X-rays, and see if it's healed, enough to take off. 
And that's generally about thirty-four to forty, somewhere in there. 
Yeah. 
You know, a pin, you know, if we did a pin, it's probably, it would probably be even a hundred more but, so it's it's that's about the — at this point the, the least expensive alternative that probably will work for her. 
Um, so, if you want to let him know and then have him call me back, if you, if you wanna go ahead and do it. 
Okay? 
Lindsey? 
You wanna put this kitty castration down? 
Sure. 
Alright. 
And if she — you know, if we did it, she could probably go home tomorrow. 
Okay, whenever, whenever you get a chance. 
Okay, thanks Carol. 
Mhm, bye-bye. 
Am I doing that right so far? 
Mhm. 
All the way down to that? 
Mhm. 
I think. 
I don't think I am. 
Do you? 
And you'd have to have that plus or minus. 
What? 
I don't know what I did to get that. 
Where did I get that square root of — um, x squared? 
Because you brought this over here. 
You brought three over here, divided by three, and then you have x squared, so if you want to find x, you have the square root of x squared. 
I guess all I can't figure out is, what the square root of negative two thir – thi – two thirds is. 
Would that be, i square root two thirds? 
i square root two o – over three. 
The whole thing would be over three. 
Well. 
No it couldn't be. 
Square root of two thirds, yeah. 
But then you got the other one Nathan. 
Oh, gosh, hm. 
Leah. 
She snoozing on the floor? 
Mhm. 
Not anymore, you woke her up. 
She's doing the Karate Kid, Nathan. 
She's like, 'leave me alone. Do I deserve this?' 
I mean how would you like it, when you're laying in bed, somebody just grabbed your arm, started swinging it around? 
I'd probably just slap em. 
X squared equals one over the square root of that, the square root of that, x equals the square root of one. 
She's not even looking at me. 
She's just looking, like — 
I know. 
That's what I'm talking about. 
So, would that one be, square root of one half? 
Mhm. 
It would? 
Mhm. 
Yep. 
But do y'all have to do that, um, you have to like, have it where you do that, there's no, um. 
Fraction under the – 
Under the, in the denominator? 
I mean no fraction under the — 
Oh yeah. 
So then you just multiply, the whole thing by the square root of two, and you get the square root of two over two. 
Even for the top one? 
Even for that one? 
No. 
For — I'm talking about for this one. 
Oh. 
All you do is like go, t- two over one. 
You have the square root of one. 
Like that, right? 
Mhm. 
Since you have the square root of two on the bottom, to make that a square, you have to multiply by the square root of two. 
And then you get two, and you multiply the top by the square root of two, and you get, square root of two. 
What? 
I wanna rewind it and hear that back again. 
Cause I sure didn't catch it the first time. 
You got the two, and you take the square root of two, and you get the negative two, which you take the square, and it comes to two. 
I'm sorry. 
So, let's talk about this slowly, as I write this down, as you're saying it. 
Alright? 
This is what we came out with. 
Right? 
It's — But put it as the square root of one, over the square root of two. 
Oh. 
And then you multiply that by the square root of two, over the square root of two. 
Right. 
Uh, is that what all those square root of twos are? 
That's what I was try — That's what I was trying to say. 
Okay, I was wondering where all that, square root two, square root two. 
That's what it was. 
Then right here you'd get, square root of two over two. 
Mhm. 
See everything was square root two, over two, and two, 
Right, but then, what about this one? 
On this one. 
Let me do this one. 
But, you have i — you have i square root of three, over square root of three. 
I mean z — i square root of two over three — square root of three. 
I can't even say it right. 
Over, do I have another i down here, or just the one i? 
Um, no. 
Just one. 
Okay, three and square root of three, over square root of three, and you get — 
i square root of six. 
Yeah. 
Over three. 
Is that right? 
I doubt it. 
I really do. 
I'm not kidding. 
You can't — You can't multiply square roots like that, can you? 
Square root of two, times square root of three, is square root of six, is it? 
Yeah. 
Okay. 
Well, then that's fine. 
Then that is right. 
Isn't that c- — you can do that. 
Yeah. 
Cause that's the same way you're multiplying there, square root of nine, that — and square root of nine equals three. 
Yeah, okay. 
Where's the test? 
There ain't no telling. 
You have it. 
I mean I have it. 
Okay. 
The next one, is, five x, times x minus one. 
Is that it? 
Um. 
Equals, two, times one minus x. 
Leah. 
Two times one minus x? 
Yeah. 
And that's easy, you can do that. 
Oh this is easy. 
X squared. 
Please say this will factor. 
Will it? 
Nah, you do it. 
Well, I mean, that's just wasting time. 
Cause if it's not. 
Yeah. 
It does? 
Mhm. 
One and negative two-fifths? 
Mhm. 
And I can always put those back up into the top and, and see if they check. 
Right? 
Let me just try the one? 
Five, I got zero equals zero. 
Tha- – that's right. 
And that's one? 
Yeah. 
Zero equals zero equals one. 
Okay. 
