The Texas War for Independence 
Many Americans who migrated to Texas at the invitation of the Mexican government did not completely shed their identity or loyalty to the United States. 
They brought American traditions and expectations with them (including, for many, the right to own slaves). 
For instance, the majority of these new settlers were Protestant, and though they were not required to attend the Catholic mass, Mexico's prohibition on the public practice of other religions upset them and they routinely ignored it. 
Accustomed to representative democracy, jury trials, and the defendant’s right to appear before a judge, the Anglo-American settlers in Texas also disliked the Mexican legal system, which provided for an initial hearing by an alcalde, an administrator who often combined the duties of mayor, judge, and law enforcement officer. 
The alcalde sent a written record of the proceeding to a judge in Saltillo, the state capital, who decided the outcome. 
Settlers also resented that at most two Texas representatives were allowed in the state legislature. 
Their greatest source of discontent, though, was the Mexican government's 1829 abolition of slavery. 
Most American settlers were from southern states, and many had brought slaves with them. 
Mexico tried to accommodate them by maintaining the fiction that the slaves were indentured servants. 
But American slaveholders in Texas distrusted the Mexican government and wanted Texas to be a new U.S. slave state. 
The dislike of most for Roman Catholicism (the prevailing religion of Mexico) and a widely held belief in American racial superiority led them generally to regard Mexicans as dishonest, ignorant, and backward. 
Figure 1.3 
This 1833 map shows the extent of land grants made by Mexico to American settlers in Texas. 
Nearly all are in the eastern portion of the state, one factor that led to war with Mexico in 1846. 
Image credit: Holley (Armstrong & Plaskitt), Public Domain 
Belief in their own superiority inspired some Texans to try to undermine the power of the Mexican government. 
When empresario Haden Edwards attempted to evict people who had settled his land grant before he gained title to it, the Mexican government nullified its agreement with him. 
Outraged, Edwards and a small party of men took prisoner the alcalde of Nacogdoches. 
The Mexican army marched to the town, and Edwards and his troops then declared the formation of the Republic of Fredonia between the Sabine and Rio Grande Rivers. 
To demonstrate loyalty to their adopted country, a force led by Stephen Austin hastened to Nacogdoches to support the Mexican army. 
Edwards’s revolt collapsed, and the revolutionaries fled Texas. 
The growing presence of American settlers in Texas, their reluctance to abide by Mexican law, and their desire for independence caused the Mexican government to grow wary. 
In 1830, it forbade future U.S. immigration and increased its military presence in Texas. 
Settlers continued to stream illegally across the long border; by 1835, after immigration resumed, there were twenty thousand Anglo-Americans in Texas. 
Fifty-five delegates from the Anglo-American settlements gathered in 1831 to demand the suspension of customs duties, the resumption of immigration from the United States, better protection from Indian tribes, the granting of promised land titles, and the creation of an independent state of Texas separate from Coahuila. 
Ordered to disband, the delegates reconvened in early April 1833 to write a constitution for an independent Texas. 
Surprisingly, General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, Mexico’s new president, agreed to all demands, except the call for statehood. 
Coahuila y Texas made provisions for jury trials, increased Texas’s representation in the state legislature, and removed restrictions on commerce. 
Figure 1.4 
This portrait of General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna depicts the Mexican president and general in full military regalia. 
Image credit: Public Domain 
Texans' hopes for independence were quashed in 1834, however, when Santa Anna dismissed the Mexican Congress and abolished all state governments, including that of Coahuila y Texas. 
In January 1835, reneging on earlier promises, he dispatched troops to the town of Anahuac to collect customs duties. 
Lawyer and soldier William B. Travis and a small force marched on Anahuac in June, and the fort surrendered. 
On October 2, Anglo-American forces met Mexican troops at the town of Gonzales; the Mexican troops fled and the Americans moved on to take San Antonio. 
Now more cautious, delegates to the Consultation of 1835 at San Felipe de Austin voted against declaring independence, instead drafting a statement, which became known as the Declaration of Causes, promising continued loyalty if Mexico returned to a constitutional form of government. 
They selected Henry Smith, leader of the Independence Party, as governor of Texas and placed Sam Houston, a former soldier who had been a congressman and governor of Tennessee, in charge of its small military force. 
The Consultation delegates met again in March 1836. 
They declared their independence from Mexico and drafted a constitution calling for an American-style judicial system and an elected president and legislature. 
Significantly, they also established that slavery would not be prohibited in Texas. 
Many wealthy Tejanos supported the push for independence, hoping for liberal governmental reforms and economic benefits. 
Remember the Alamo! 
Mexico had no intention of losing its northern province. 
Santa Anna and his army of four thousand had besieged San Antonio in February 1836. 
Hopelessly outnumbered, its two hundred defenders, under Travis, fought fiercely from their refuge in an old mission known as the Alamo. 
After ten days, however, the mission was taken and all but a few of the defenders were dead, including Travis and James Bowie, the famed frontiersman who was also a land speculator and slave trader. 
A few male survivors, possibly including the frontier legend and former Tennessee congressman Davy Crockett, were led outside the walls and executed. 
The few women and children inside the mission were allowed to leave with the only adult male survivor, a slave owned by Travis who was then freed by the Mexican Army. 
Terrified, they fled. 
Figure 1.5 
The Fall of the Alamo, painted by Theodore Gentilz fewer than ten years after this pivotal moment in the Texas Revolution, depicts the 1836 assault on the Alamo complex. 
Consider this scenario. 
A student comes to class one day, and the instructor says, “I’ve decided that you’re all a bunch of failures and I’m flunking the entire class.” 
Imagine then that the instructor simply stands there after that announcement, blinking calmly as the class erupts in protest. 
Now imagine that same scenario with one very slight difference. 
The instructor announces, “I’ve decided that you’re all a bunch of failures and I’m flunking the entire class.” 
Then, as the class erupts in protest, the instructor calmly blinks one eye, leaving the other eye open. 
Figure 3.4 
Would you take this woman seriously? 
In American culture, winking, related to the normal biological function of blinking, takes on special meaning in social interactions. 
(credit: Motion Picture News/Wikimedia Commons, Public Domain) 
What just happened there? 
Blinking is a biological compulsion common to humans everywhere. 
Humans blink to keep eyes hydrated and clear of debris. 
Humans are born knowing how to blink; nobody has to teach us. 
On average, humans blink 15 to 20 times every minute. 
Without realizing it, people are necessarily blinking throughout every conversation, every social interaction, every activity during the day. 
The people we talk to and interact with are also blinking constantly, so often that everyone is accustomed to ignoring it. 
Blinking does not affect the perceived meaning of speech or actions. 
But if someone deliberately blinks one eye, leaving the other one open, that’s a completely different matter. 
In fact, leaving one eye open makes a blink a wink. 
Winking is not a biological necessity. 
Humans are not born knowing to how to wink, and it takes some practice to learn how to do it. 
Because it requires deliberate effort and people are not constantly doing it, winking can acquire special meaning in social interactions. 
In American culture (and many others), a wink often indicates that someone is joking around and that whatever they’ve just said or done should not be taken seriously. 
Of course, a wink can mean different things in different societies. 
Moreover, a wink can mean different things in the same society. 
If someone on a date takes their companion’s hand and gives a cute little wink, the person may have reason to hope the winker is not just joking around. 
American cultural anthropologist Clifford Geertz (1973) used the example of winking to illustrate two important aspects of culture. 
First, culture is learned. 
Innate human behaviors—that is, behaviors that people are born with—are biological, not cultural. 
Blinking is biological. 
Acquired human behaviors—that is, behaviors that people are taught—are cultural. 
Winking is cultural. 
This means that cultural behaviors are not genetically inherited from generation to generation but must be passed down from older members of a society to younger members. 
This process, as you’ll recall from What is Anthropology? is called enculturation. 
Some aspects of enculturation are deliberate and systematic, such as learning the rules of written punctuation in a language. 
At some point in an English speaker’s childhood, someone explicitly told them the difference between a question mark and an exclamation point. 
Most likely, they learned this distinction in school, a fundamental institution of enculturation in many societies. 
Religious institutions are another common force of enculturation, providing explicit instruction in cultural rules of morality and social interaction. 
Extracurricular activities such as sports, dance, and music lessons also teach children cultural rules and norms. 
While a great deal of very important cultural content is deliberately conveyed in these systematic contexts, the greater part of culture is acquired unconsciously by happenstance—that is, nobody planned to teach it, and no one made an effort to consciously try to learn it. 
By virtue of growing up in a culture, children learn what certain actions and objects mean, how their society operates, and what the rules are for appropriate behavior. 
Going back to the cultural notion of home, did anyone ever explain to you why your childhood home was structured in a certain way? 
Did anyone ever point out the cultural assumptions about gender and family built into your house? 
Probably not. 
Now, imagine that you were taken away from your parents as a baby and adopted by a family far away, with a very different way of life situated in a very different environment. 
With your adoptive family, you might have been raised in a very different kind of home. 
Growing up, your everyday habits, activities, and expectations would have been shaped by the setup of that home. 
Living in that house, you would have wordlessly absorbed a set of assumptions about family, gender, work, leisure, hospitality, and property. 
And all of it would seem quite natural to you. 
Many forms of culture are passed down through a combination of deliberate and unconscious processes. 
Perhaps when you were a child, someone told you what a wink was and showed you how to accomplish one; or perhaps you just witnessed a few winks, figured out what they meant from their contexts, and then learned how to accomplish one through trial and error. 
Geertz pointed out that there are two important aspects to winking: the meaning and the action. 
As both are learned, both are cultural. 
But perhaps more importantly, both the standardized action of winking and the assumed meaning of this action are commonly known among members of a group. 
That is, culture is shared. 
A relevant question to our concern might be, would this artistic excellence in the Chinese tradition be the same as beauty? 
Arguably, beauty is regarded as the keyword in Western art tradition since antiquity. 
If we browse Chinese classical writings on art criticism, a striking difference manifests — there the category of mei or beauty does not have a dominant presence. 
For instance, among the 24 aesthetic categories of poetry listed by Sikong Tu 司空图 (837–908) in his celebrated treatise (Sikong n.d.), only three or four categories can be regarded as related to the Western notion of beauty. 
Moreover, according to Xu Hong’s (c. 1580–1660) Xishan Qinkuang 谿山琴况 (c. 1640), the most influential treatise on the aesthetics of guqin (Chinese zither) music, the category of li (pretty, beautiful) is merely the 10th of the 24 aesthetic categories, and the top six were harmony, tranquillity, clarity, profundity, antiquity, subtlety. [38] 
In Chinese paintings, prominence was given to the categories such as shen (spiritual) and miao (subtle) before mei. 
Overall, one also finds that the comparison between the beautiful and the sublime — which defined the influential aesthetics of Edmund Burke (1729–1797) and Immanuel Kant, and consequently became an iconic discourse in Western aesthetics — is also missing in the Chinese history of aesthetics. 
To conclude, in a cross-cultural comparative context, it is fair to say that an inquiry on what makes an artwork beautiful may turn out to be even less productive than in the contemporary artworld. 
38. 和, 静, 清, 远, 古, 澹 (Research Institute of Music 2010, vol.14, 316–321). 
CONTEMPORARY DISCOURSE: BRIEF REMARK 
The Hegelian definition of aesthetics as the philosophy of art that considers the issue of artistic beauty as its core concern is no more enchanting in our time. 
Many would agree that the question “what makes an artwork beautiful” plays a minor role in contemporary aesthetics and philosophy of art, where the question has been updated to “what makes an artwork meaningful or valuable?” 
Two factors might contribute to this situation. 
Firstly, it is not a coincidence that the loss of interest in the inquiry into artistic beauty coincides with a sea change in the artworld, transformed by new art movements as well as struggles in defining art. 
Being beautiful is no longer a defining feature of art. 
Also, when the representationalism, the expression theories, formalism, neoformalism, aesthetic theories in defining art all fail to offer an account that is capable of coping with the dynamic scenes of the artworld, and when the anti-essentialist movement in philosophical aesthetics then paves a way to functionalism, institutionalism and various versions of historicism, the question of artistic beauty as such not only loses its limelight, but also is, to some extent, abandoned for its strong Hegelian colour. 
Now if “art” itself becomes an open concept or a socially, historically, culturally sensitive notion, then whatever makes an artwork beautiful is unlikely to be something homogeneous and unitary. 
Secondly, the inquiry into “beauty” experienced a shift of focus from the emphasis on aesthetic properties of the objects to the subjective experience involved in aesthetic appreciation. 
In other words, a shift from an inquiry about “the beauty of object” to the issue of “the pleasure of beauty.” 
The contemporary inquiry into beauty in general is often classified in light of the framework of realism vs non-realism. 
Realism regards artistic beauty as a property of artworks which is independent of the subject, while non-realism holds that artistic beauty is not an independent property of artworks. 
This shift has a long historical preparation, contributed especially by the British empiricists such as Francis Hutcheson (1694–1746) and David Hume (1711–1776). 
Hutcheson thinks that beauty lies in both the object and the subject, and artistic beauty comes from the quality of “uniformity amidst variety” in the object and the involvement of an “internal sense” in the subject. [39] 
Hume argues that “beauty is no quality in things themselves,” but a “sentiment” in “the mind that contemplates them” and “to seek the real beauty … is … fruitless.” [40] 
In contemporary aesthetics, from the study of empathy to Freud’s libido, to the evolutionary theory of beauty, to the focus on perception in aesthetic experience, more and more philosophers seek to answer the question of what makes an artwork beautiful in light of human physiology and psychology. 
For instance, the evolutionary theory regards artistic beauty as “fitness signal” that displays desirable personal qualities that strengthen reproductive advantage, and our pleasant feeling caused by something beautiful, like sexual pleasure, is engraved in our minds by the process of evolution, assisting us to make the “the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction.” [41] 
39. “The Figures which excite in us the Ideas of Beauty, seem to be those in which there is Uniformity amidst Variety” (§ II, p. 28). 
“The internal Sense is, a passive Power of receiving Ideas of Beauty from all Objects in which there is Uniformity amidst Variety” (§ VI, 67). 
40. “Beauty is no quality in things themselves: it exists merely in the mind which contemplates them; and each mind perceives a different beauty … every individual ought to acquiesce in his own sentiment, without pretending to regulate those of others. 
To seek the real beauty, or real deformity, is as fruitless an inquiry, as to pretend to ascertain the real sweet or real bitter” (Hume 1998, 136–137). 
41. Denis Dutton (2010) provides such an account in his TED talk, “A Darwinian Theory of Beauty.” 
Learning Objectives 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Describe cognition 
Distinguish concepts and prototypes 
Explain the difference between natural and artificial concepts 
Imagine all of your thoughts as if they were physical entities, swirling rapidly inside your mind. 
How is it possible that the brain is able to move from one thought to the next in an organized, orderly fashion? 
The brain is endlessly perceiving, processing, planning, organizing, and remembering—it is always active. 
Yet, you don’t notice most of your brain’s activity as you move throughout your daily routine. 
This is only one facet of the complex processes involved in cognition. 
Simply put, cognition is thinking, and it encompasses the processes associated with perception, knowledge, problem solving, judgment, language, and memory. 
Scientists who study cognition are searching for ways to understand how we integrate, organize, and utilize our conscious cognitive experiences without being aware of all of the unconscious work that our brains are doing (for example, Kahneman, 2011). 
Cognition 
Upon waking each morning, you begin thinking—contemplating the tasks that you must complete that day. 
In what order should you run your errands? 
Should you go to the bank, the cleaners, or the grocery store first? 
Can you get these things done before you head to class or will they need to wait until school is done? 
These thoughts are one example of cognition at work. 
Exceptionally complex, cognition is an essential feature of human consciousness, yet not all aspects of cognition are consciously experienced. 
Cognitive psychology is the field of psychology dedicated to examining how people think. 
It attempts to explain how and why we think the way we do by studying the interactions among human thinking, emotion, creativity, language, and problem solving, in addition to other cognitive processes. 
Cognitive psychologists strive to determine and measure different types of intelligence, why some people are better at problem solving than others, and how emotional intelligence affects success in the workplace, among countless other topics. 
They also sometimes focus on how we organize thoughts and information gathered from our environments into meaningful categories of thought, which will be discussed later. 
Concepts and Prototypes 
The human nervous system is capable of handling endless streams of information. 
The senses serve as the interface between the mind and the external environment, receiving stimuli and translating it into nervous impulses that are transmitted to the brain. 
The brain then processes this information and uses the relevant pieces to create thoughts, which can then be expressed through language or stored in memory for future use. 
To make this process more complex, the brain does not gather information from external environments only. 
When thoughts are formed, the brain also pulls information from emotions and memories (Figure 7.2). 
Emotion and memory are powerful influences on both our thoughts and behaviors. 
Figure 7.2 
Sensations and information are received by our brains, filtered through emotions and memories, and processed to become thoughts. 
In order to organize this staggering amount of information, the brain has developed a file cabinet of sorts in the mind. 
The different files stored in the file cabinet are called concepts. 
Concepts are categories or groupings of linguistic information, images, ideas, or memories, such as life experiences. 
Concepts are, in many ways, big ideas that are generated by observing details, and categorizing and combining these details into cognitive structures. 
You use concepts to see the relationships among the different elements of your experiences and to keep the information in your mind organized and accessible. 
Concepts are informed by our semantic memory (you will learn more about semantic memory in a later chapter) and are present in every aspect of our lives; however, one of the easiest places to notice concepts is inside a classroom, where they are discussed explicitly. 
When you study United States history, for example, you learn about more than just individual events that have happened in America’s past. 
You absorb a large quantity of information by listening to and participating in discussions, examining maps, and reading first-hand accounts of people’s lives. 
Your brain analyzes these details and develops an overall understanding of American history. 
In the process, your brain gathers details that inform and refine your understanding of related concepts like democracy, power, and freedom. 
Concepts can be complex and abstract, like justice, or more concrete, like types of birds. 
In psychology, for example, Piaget’s stages of development are abstract concepts. 
Some concepts, like tolerance, are agreed upon by many people, because they have been used in various ways over many years. 
Other concepts, like the characteristics of your ideal friend or your family’s birthday traditions, are personal and individualized. 
In this way, concepts touch every aspect of our lives, from our many daily routines to the guiding principles behind the way governments function. 
Another technique used by your brain to organize information is the identification of prototypes for the concepts you have developed. 
A prototype is the best example or representation of a concept. 
For example, for the category of civil disobedience, your prototype could be Rosa Parks. 
Her peaceful resistance to segregation on a city bus in Montgomery, Alabama, is a recognizable example of civil disobedience. 
Or your prototype could be Mohandas Gandhi, sometimes called Mahatma Gandhi (“Mahatma” is an honorific title) (Figure 7.3). 
Figure 7.3 
In 1930, Mohandas Gandhi led a group in peaceful protest against a British tax on salt in India. 
Mohandas Gandhi served as a nonviolent force for independence for India while simultaneously demanding that Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim, and Christian leaders—both Indian and British—collaborate peacefully. 
Although he was not always successful in preventing violence around him, his life provides a steadfast example of the civil disobedience prototype (Constitutional Rights Foundation, 2013). 
Just as concepts can be abstract or concrete, we can make a distinction between concepts that are functions of our direct experience with the world and those that are more artificial in nature. 
An Entrepreneurial Mindset in Your Discipline or Field 
Within your industry of interest or area of study, what are the challenges that create frustration? 
How can these be turned into opportunities? 
Earlier in this chapter, we discussed Evernote, a company that focuses on expanding our memories by storing and organizing information. 
Let’s look at some other examples of entrepreneurial endeavors in specific industries to help you plan your own venture in your own industry. 
In the agriculture industry, insects, weeds, weather conditions, and the challenges of harvesting crops are all ripe for entrepreneurial activities. 
The move toward organic produce has also affected this industry. 
From an entrepreneurial perspective, what products could you invent to support both organic farming and the problems of insects that damage or destroy crops? 
The old method was to use chemical sprays to kill the insects, but today, the growing demand for organic foods and increased awareness of the impact of chemical sprays on our environment are changing this scenario. 
One new idea to solve this problem combines a vacuum cleaner with an agriculture product. 
LINK TO LEARNING 
Watch this video on the creation of a crop vacuum that sucks up insects and bugs to learn more. 
A bug vacuum is an example of how using divergent thinking contributed to the solution of removing bugs from crops without using chemicals. 
In the group activity of creating divergent ideas, this idea may not have been received well. 
However, in the incubation stage, the idea must have come forward as a viable solution. 
Entrepreneurs frequently face the challenge of pressure to conform to established habits and patterns within industries. 
Often, the entrepreneurial mindset includes futuristic ideas that shake up the normal, conventional processes that are grounded in experience over time. 
Tried-and-tested processes and products that have a proven history of success can be a formidable obstacle to new ideas. 
A new idea may even appear as impossible or outlandish, perhaps even an embarrassment to the steady and predictable practices established within an industry. 
This can create a dilemma: Do we try something new and unproven that lacks documented research? 
Sometimes, we must disregard our past successes and research to be open to new possibilities for success and failure. 
An entrepreneurial mindset includes creativity, problem-solving skills, and a propensity to innovation.23 
Open-mindedness is one characteristic that supports creativity, problem solving, and innovation. 
Taking the time to explore new ideas, dream, reflect, and view situations from a new perspective contribute to the entrepreneurial mindset. 
Some innovations can lead to disruptions within the industry, or even create a new industry. 
The innovator’s dilemma was presented by Clayton Christensen to explain disruptive technology, which are technologies that, once introduced, displace established patterns, processes, and systems previously accepted as normal or accepted. 
One example of a disruptive technology is Airbnb, a company that threatens the established hotel industry by connecting personal resources to people who desire those resources. 
If you have a spare bedroom that you aren’t using, why not sell that space to someone who wants and needs the space? 
Airbnb has become a significant threat to the established hotel industry’s business model of building large hotels and renting rooms within those hotels to their customers. 
Airbnb has reconfigured that model, and since its 2008 launch, 150 million travelers have taken advantage of 3 million Airbnb listings in more than 191 countries. 
Airbnb has raised more than $3 billion (plus a $1 billion credit line) and is considering selling stocks to support significant expansion. 
The value of Airbnb is approximately $30 billion. 
Compare this market value to Hilton’s market capitalization of $19 billion and Marriott’s of $35 billion. 
If you were the CEO of Hilton or Marriott, would you be worried? 
The hotel industry recognized Airbnb as a threat, and in 2016, began a campaign to create legislation to rein in Airbnb’s growth and popularity. 
From the hotel industry’s perspective, Airbnb is not playing by the same rules. 
This is the definition of disruptive technology, the focus on creating a new idea or process that negates or challenges established process or products.24 
Sometimes disruptive technologies result from not listening to customers. 
Customers don’t always know what they want. 
Customer groups might need to be redefined by the entrepreneurial team on the basis of better models, knowing when to invest in developing lower-performance products that promise lower margins while still satisfying the need, and knowing when to pursue small markets at the expense of larger or established markets. 
Basically, disruptive technologies occur through identifying new and valuable processes and products. 
The founders of Airbnb recognized that some people have unused resources, bedrooms, that other people need. 
We can apply this idea to other unused resources such as vehicles and motor homes. 
We see this model reproduced in short-term car rental and bike-sharing programs. 
Emma Fleck. “Needed: Entrepreneurial Mindset.” Central Penn Business Journal, 34(12), 10. http://pageturnpro2.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/Publications/201803/15/83956/PDF/131668002208352000_CPBJ033018WEB.pdf 
Katie Benner. “Inside the Hotel Industry’s Plan to Combat Airbnb.” New York Times. April 16, 2017. https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/16/technology/inside-the-hotel-industrys-plan-to-combat-airbnb.html 
Are there Moral Facts? 
So far, we have covered how evolutionary ethics relates to the question what we ought to do and why we are moral in the first place. 
A related set of questions about ethics are metaethical questions, which concern the meaning of moral terms, our ways of gaining knowledge of moral facts, and the nature of the moral facts. 
In other words, apart from thinking about how we ought to live, and where our moral sense comes from, we can also ask what it means to affirm a particular answer to that question, how we could come to know the answer, and whether the answer would be a matter of fact or more like an opinion. 
Many books and articles in moral philosophy start with the observation that moral judgments seem to be objectively true and the assumption that this is how non-philosophers also think about morality. 
For example, Michael Smith writes: 
We seem to think moral questions have correct answers; that the correct answers are made correct by objective moral facts; that moral facts are wholly determined by circumstances; and that, by engaging in moral conversation and argument, we can discover what these objective facts are. 
(Smith 1994, 6) 
But as we have seen above, evolutionary theory explains why we would think that moral judgments are objective. 
The philosopher Michael Ruse takes this to show that the apparent objectivity of morality is something like an “illusion” foisted on us by our genes (Ruse [1986] 1998, 253). 
Of course, even if Ruse is correct, this does not show that moral judgments are not objective, but it can make us think whether the objectivity of morality really has to be explained, as many philosophers assume. 
Ruse has also argued that an evolutionary account of morality suggests that there are no moral facts in the first place. 
Anything we want to explain about morality can be explained without mentioning moral facts, or so Ruse argues. 
If moral facts are explanatorily redundant, indeed, moral realists (those who believe there are mind-independent, objective facts about morality, as discussed in Chapter 1) need to say why we should still suppose that moral facts do exist. 
Interestingly, Ruse’s methodological naturalism leads him to embrace a view that goes against the metaphysical naturalist position that moral facts exist. 
Relatedly, Sharon Street, for example, argues that evolutionary explanations of morality show that moral realism is probably false. 
The kind of moral realism that Street has in mind is the view that moral properties exist as objective features of the world (to wit, whether stealing is wrong is independent of whether anyone thinks or feels that stealing is wrong). 
Street starts with the premise that our moral judgments are influenced by evolutionary forces. 
This fact, Street claims, gives rise to a dilemma for moral realists concerning the relation of the evolutionary forces that influenced our moral judgments and the moral facts claimed to exist by moral realists. 
If there is no relation between the evolutionary forces and the moral facts, then it would be an astonishing coincidence if many of our moral judgments were true. 
In light of the coincidence, we have no reason to assume that our moral judgments are true—an unpalatable conclusion for realists. 
Claiming that there is a relation, however, is empirically dubious, according to Street. 
Mirroring Ruse’s claim, moral facts could be purged from what we assume to exist because they do not perform an important explanatory function. 
So, we should reject moral realism. 
Street’s argument illustrates how evolutionary theory can be used to make a case about which metaethical theories we should adopt. 
Both Ruse’s and Street’s arguments rely on the idea that we should only accept that something exists if it plays an indispensable explanatory role and there are means to resist these arguments. [12] 
Both arguments, as presented here, rely on the correctness of the evolutionary explanation of morality they convey. 
In the next section, we turn to the relevance of evolutionary ethics for moral epistemology. 
E.g. Enoch (2010) 
Can We have Justified Moral Beliefs? 
The evolutionary argument by Sharon Street can also be interpreted as an argument about moral justification and moral knowledge. 
Suppose that moral realists assume that there is no relation between our moral judgments and the moral facts. 
It would seem like an incredible coincidence if the realists were right that our moral judgments are nonetheless true. 
There are just too many possible moral truths and too many ways in which evolution could have “pushed” our moral beliefs. 
Street claims that such a coincidence would be too much to believe. 
But what is the problem, exactly, with having beliefs that are only coincidentally true? 
Depending on how we understand “coincidence,” my belief that there is a bird outside my window is coincidentally true because had I looked a little later, the bird would have flown away already. 
Accidentally true beliefs do not seem problematic in every case. 
The question for proponents of Street’s argument is to show why the evolutionary influence on human moral beliefs makes for a particularly problematic case of coincidence. 
The philosopher Richard Joyce argues that the problem has to do with the sensitivity of our moral beliefs to the moral facts (Joyce 2006). 
Given that our moral beliefs are influenced by evolutionary forces, and not by the moral facts, our moral beliefs would be the same even if the moral facts would change. 
But because we should not hold on to such insensitive beliefs, evolutionary explanations of morality show that our moral beliefs are unjustified (because they are not sensitive). 
It is not clear, however, whether and why evolutionary explanations of morality reveal something about our moral beliefs that is particularly troubling from an epistemological perspective. 
The impact of evolutionary ethics on epistemological questions depends on these deeper questions about epistemology. [13] 
Evolutionary explanations of morality, however, provide us with a useful starting point for thinking about these questions. 
See Klenk (2019). 
CONCLUSION 
Evolutionary ethics has helped us to get a much clearer sense of where the human moral sense is coming from. 
While this is a far cry from revealing to us what we ought to do, the research program seems full of promise nonetheless. 
Once we get into the details, we can see that it also raises deep theoretical questions about evolutionary explanations, the relation of descriptive and normative claims, the epistemology of justification and truth, and the general viability of naturalism in ethics. 
Much left to wonder, then, but with some ideas about where to get our answers. 
2.2 The Motivated Learner 
Questions to consider: 
How do different types of motivation affect my learning? 
What is resilience and grit? 
How can I apply the Uses and Gratification Theory to make decisions about my learning? 
How do I prevent negative bias from hindering learning? 
In this section, you will continue to increase your ability as an informed learner. 
Here you will explore how much of an influence motivation has on learning, as well as how to use motivation to purposefully take an active role in any learning activity. 
Rather than passively attempting to absorb new information, you will learn how to make conscious decisions about the methods of learning you will use (based on what you intend to do with the information), how you will select and use learning materials that are appropriate for your needs, and how persistent you will be in the learning activity. 
There are three main motivation concepts that have been found to directly relate to learning. 
Each of these has been proven to mean the difference between success and failure. 
You will find that each of these is a strong tool that will enable you to engage with learning material in a way that not only suits your needs, but also gives you ownership over your own learning processes. 
Resilience and Grit 
While much of this chapter will cover very specific aspects about the act of learning, in this section, we will present different information that may at first seem unrelated. 
Some people would consider it more of a personal outlook than a learning practice, and yet it has a significant influence on the ability to learn. 
What we are talking about here is called grit or resilience. 
Grit can be defined as personal perseverance toward a task or goal. 
In learning, it can be thought of as a trait that drives a person to keep trying until they succeed. 
It is not tied to talent or ability, but is simply a tendency to not give up until something is finished or accomplished. 
Figure 2.3 
U.S. Army veteran and captain of the U.S. Invictus team, Will Reynolds, races to the finish line. 
(Credit: DoD News / Flickr / Attribution 2.0 Generic (CC-BY 2.0)) 
The study showed that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ. 
This personality trait was defined as “grit” by the psychologist Angela Duckworth. 1 
In a 2007 study Duckworth and colleagues found that individuals with high grit were able to maintain motivation in learning tasks despite failures. 
The study examined a cross section of learning environments, such as GPA scores in Ivy League universities, dropout rates at West Point, rankings in the National Spelling Bee, and general educational attainment for adults. 
What the results showed was that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ. 
Duckworth, A. L.; Peterson, C.; Matthews, M. D.; Kelly, D. R. (June 2007). "Grit: Perseverance and passion for long-term goals". 
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 92 (6): 1087–1101. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.92.6.1087. PMID 17547490. 
Applying Grit 
The concept of grit is an easy one to dismiss as something taken for granted. 
In our culture, we have a number of sayings and aphorisms that capture the essence of grit: “If at first you do not succeed, try, try again,” or the famous quote by Thomas Edison: “Genius is one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration.” 
The problem is we all understand the concept, but actually applying it takes work. 
If the task we are trying to complete is a difficult one, it can take a lot of work. 
The first step in applying grit is to adopt an attitude that looks directly to the end goal as the only acceptable outcome. 
With this attitude comes an acceptance that you may not succeed on the first attempt — or the nineteenth attempt. 
Failed attempts are viewed as merely part of the process and seen as a very useful way to gain knowledge that moves you toward success. 
An example of this would be studying for an exam. 
In your first attempt at studying you simply reread the chapters of your textbook covered in the exam. 
You find that while this reinforces some of the knowledge you have gained, it does not ensure you have all the information you will need to do well on the test. 
You know that if you simply read the chapters yet again, there is no guarantee you are going to be any more successful. 
You determine that you need to find a different approach. 
In other words, your first attempt was not a complete failure, but it did not achieve the end goal, so you try again with a different method. 
On your second try, you copy down all of the main points onto a piece of paper using the section headlines from the chapters. 
After a short break you come back to your list and write down a summary of what you know about each item on your list. 
This accomplishes two things: first, you are able to immediately spot areas where you need to learn more, and second, you can check your summaries against the text to make certain what you know is correct and adequate. 
In this example, while you may not have yet achieved complete success, you will have learned what you need to do next. 
In true grit fashion, for your next try, you study those items on your list where you found you needed a bit more information, and then you go through your list again. 
This time you are able to write down summaries of all the important points, and you are confident you have the knowledge you need to do well on the exam. 
After this, you still do not stop, but instead you change your approach to use other methods that keep what you have learned fresh in your mind. 
1 The Americas, Europe, and Africa Before 1492 
1.1 The Americas 
Learning Objectives 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Locate on a map the major American civilizations before the arrival of the Spanish 
Discuss the cultural achievements of these civilizations 
Discuss the differences and similarities between lifestyles, religious practices, and customs among the native peoples 
Figure 1.2 
(credit: modification of work by Architect of the Capitol) 
Some scholars believe that between nine and fifteen thousand years ago, a land bridge existed between Asia and North America that we now call Beringia. 
The first inhabitants of what would be named the Americas migrated across this bridge in search of food. 
When the glaciers melted, water engulfed Beringia, and the Bering Strait was formed. 
Later settlers came by boat across the narrow strait. 
(The fact that Asians and American Indians share genetic markers on a Y chromosome lends credibility to this migration theory.) 
Continually moving southward, the settlers eventually populated both North and South America, creating unique cultures that ranged from the highly complex and urban Aztec civilization in what is now Mexico City to the woodland tribes of eastern North America. 
Recent research along the west coast of South America suggests that migrant populations may have traveled down this coast by water as well as by land. 
Researchers believe that about ten thousand years ago, humans also began the domestication of plants and animals, adding agriculture as a means of sustenance to hunting and gathering techniques. 
With this agricultural revolution, and the more abundant and reliable food supplies it brought, populations grew and people were able to develop a more settled way of life, building permanent settlements. 
Nowhere in the Americas was this more obvious than in Mesoamerica (Figure 1.3). 
Figure 1.3 
This map shows the extent of the major civilizations of the Western Hemisphere. 
In South America, early civilizations developed along the coast because the high Andes and the inhospitable Amazon Basin made the interior of the continent less favorable for settlement. 
THE FIRST AMERICANS: THE OLMEC 
Mesoamerica is the geographic area stretching from north of Panama up to the desert of central Mexico. 
Although marked by great topographic, linguistic, and cultural diversity, this region cradled a number of civilizations with similar characteristics. 
Mesoamericans were polytheistic; their gods possessed both male and female traits and demanded blood sacrifices of enemies taken in battle or ritual bloodletting. 
Corn, or maize, domesticated by 5000 BCE, formed the basis of their diet. 
They developed a mathematical system, built huge edifices, and devised a calendar that accurately predicted eclipses and solstices and that priest-astronomers used to direct the planting and harvesting of crops. 
Most important for our knowledge of these peoples, they created the only known written language in the Western Hemisphere; researchers have made much progress in interpreting the inscriptions on their temples and pyramids. 
Though the area had no overarching political structure, trade over long distances helped diffuse culture. 
Weapons made of obsidian, jewelry crafted from jade, feathers woven into clothing and ornaments, and cacao beans that were whipped into a chocolate drink formed the basis of commerce. 
The mother of Mesoamerican cultures was the Olmec civilization. 
Flourishing along the hot Gulf Coast of Mexico from about 1200 to about 400 BCE, the Olmec produced a number of major works of art, architecture, pottery, and sculpture. 
Most recognizable are their giant head sculptures (Figure 1.4) and the pyramid in La Venta. 
The Olmec built aqueducts to transport water into their cities and irrigate their fields. 
They grew maize, squash, beans, and tomatoes. 
They also bred small domesticated dogs which, along with fish, provided their protein. 
Although no one knows what happened to the Olmec after about 400 BCE, in part because the jungle reclaimed many of their cities, their culture was the base upon which the Maya and the Aztec built. 
It was the Olmec who worshipped a rain god, a maize god, and the feathered serpent so important in the future pantheons of the Aztecs (who called him Quetzalcoatl) and the Maya (to whom he was Kukulkan). 
The Olmec also developed a system of trade throughout Mesoamerica, giving rise to an elite class. 
Figure 1.4 
The Olmec carved heads from giant boulders that ranged from four to eleven feet in height and could weigh up to fifty tons. 
All these figures have flat noses, slightly crossed eyes, and large lips. 
These physical features can be seen today in some of the peoples indigenous to the area. 
THE MAYA 
After the decline of the Olmec, a city rose in the fertile central highlands of Mesoamerica. 
One of the largest population centers in pre-Columbian America and home to more than 100,000 people at its height in about 500 CE, Teotihuacan was located about thirty miles northeast of modern Mexico City. 
The ethnicity of this settlement’s inhabitants is debated; some scholars believe it was a multiethnic city. 
Large-scale agriculture and the resultant abundance of food allowed time for people to develop special trades and skills other than farming. 
Builders constructed over twenty-two hundred apartment compounds for multiple families, as well as more than a hundred temples. 
Among these were the Pyramid of the Sun (which is two hundred feet high) and the Pyramid of the Moon (one hundred and fifty feet high). 
Near the Temple of the Feathered Serpent, graves have been uncovered that suggest humans were sacrificed for religious purposes. 
The city was also the center for trade, which extended to settlements on Mesoamerica’s Gulf Coast. 
The Maya were one Mesoamerican culture that had strong ties to Teotihuacan. 
The Maya’s architectural and mathematical contributions were significant. 
Flourishing from roughly 2000 BCE to 900 CE in what is now Mexico, Belize, Honduras, and Guatemala, the Maya perfected the calendar and written language the Olmec had begun. 
They devised a written mathematical system to record crop yields and the size of the population, and to assist in trade. 
Surrounded by farms relying on primitive agriculture, they built the city-states of Copan, Tikal, and Chichen Itza along their major trade routes, as well as temples, statues of gods, pyramids, and astronomical observatories (Figure 1.5). 
However, because of poor soil and a drought that lasted nearly two centuries, their civilization declined by about 900 CE and they abandoned their large population centers. 
Figure 1.5 
El Castillo, located at Chichen Itza in the eastern Yucatán peninsula, served as a temple for the god Kukulkan. 
Each side contains ninety-one steps to the top. 
When counting the top platform, the total number of stairs is three hundred and sixty-five, the number of days in a year. 
(credit: Ken Thomas) 
The Spanish found little organized resistance among the weakened Maya upon their arrival in the 1520s. 
However, they did find Mayan history, in the form of glyphs, or pictures representing words, recorded in folding books called codices (the singular is codex). 
In 1562, Bishop Diego de Landa, who feared the converted natives had reverted to their traditional religious practices, collected and burned every codex he could find. 
Today only a few survive. 
Key Terms 
Beringia 
an ancient land bridge linking Asia and North America 
Review Questions 
1. Which of the following Indian peoples built homes in cliff dwellings that still exist? 
A. Anasazi 
B. Cherokee 
C. Aztec 
D. Inca 
2. Which culture developed the first writing system in the Western Hemisphere? 
A. Inca 
B. Maya 
C. Olmec 
D. Pueblo 
Ethnocentrism and Cultural Relativism 
Despite how much humans have in common, cultural differences are far more prevalent than cultural universals. 
For example, while all cultures have language, analysis of particular language structures and conversational etiquette reveal tremendous differences. 
In some Middle Eastern cultures, it is common to stand close to others in conversation. 
North Americans keep more distance and maintain a large “personal space.” 
Even something as simple as eating and drinking varies greatly from culture to culture. 
If your professor comes into an early morning class holding a mug of liquid, what do you assume she is drinking? 
In the United States, it’s most likely filled with coffee, not Earl Grey tea, a favorite in England, or Yak Butter tea, a staple in Tibet. 
The way cuisines vary across cultures fascinates many people. 
Some travelers pride themselves on their willingness to try unfamiliar foods, like celebrated food writer Anthony Bourdain, while others return home expressing gratitude for their native culture’s fare. 
Often, people in the United States express disgust at other cultures’ cuisine and think that it’s gross to eat meat from a dog or guinea pig, for example, while they don’t question their own habit of eating cows or pigs. 
Such attitudes are an example of ethnocentrism, or evaluating and judging another culture based on how it compares to one’s own cultural norms. 
Ethnocentrism, as sociologist William Graham Sumner (1906) described the term, involves a belief or attitude that one’s own culture is better than all others. 
Almost everyone is a little bit ethnocentric. 
For example, Americans tend to say that people from England drive on the “wrong” side of the road, rather than on the “other” side. 
Someone from a country where dog meat is standard fare might find it off - putting to see a dog in a French restaurant — not on the menu, but as a pet and patron’s companion. 
A good example of ethnocentrism is referring to parts of Asia as the "Far East." 
One might question, "Far east of where?" 
A high level of appreciation for one’s own culture can be healthy; a shared sense of community pride, for example, connects people in a society. 
But ethnocentrism can lead to disdain or dislike for other cultures and could cause misunderstanding and conflict. 
People with the best intentions sometimes travel to a society to “help” its people, because they see them as uneducated or backward-essentially inferior. 
In reality, these travelers are guilty of cultural imperialism, the deliberate imposition of one’s own cultural values on another culture. 
Europe’s colonial expansion, begun in the sixteenth century, was often accompanied by a severe cultural imperialism. 
European colonizers often viewed the people in the lands they colonized as uncultured savages who were in need of European governance, dress, religion, and other cultural practices. 
A more modern example of cultural imperialism may include the work of international aid agencies who introduce agricultural methods and plant species from developed countries while overlooking indigenous varieties and agricultural approaches that are better suited to the particular region. 
Ethnocentrism can be so strong that when confronted with all of the differences of a new culture, one may experience disorientation and frustration. 
In sociology, we call this culture shock. 
A traveler from Chicago might find the nightly silence of rural Montana unsettling, not peaceful. 
An exchange student from China might be annoyed by the constant interruptions in class as other students ask questions—a practice that is considered rude in China. 
Perhaps the Chicago traveler was initially captivated with Montana’s quiet beauty and the Chinese student was originally excited to see a U.S.-style classroom firsthand. 
But as they experience unanticipated differences from their own culture, their excitement gives way to discomfort and doubts about how to behave appropriately in the new situation. 
Eventually, as people learn more about a culture, they recover from culture shock. 
Culture shock may appear because people aren’t always expecting cultural differences. 
Anthropologist Ken Barger (1971) discovered this when he conducted a participatory observation in an Inuit community in the Canadian Arctic. 
Originally from Indiana, Barger hesitated when invited to join a local snowshoe race. 
He knew he’d never hold his own against these experts. 
Sure enough, he finished last, to his mortification. 
But the tribal members congratulated him, saying, “You really tried!” 
In Barger’s own culture, he had learned to value victory. 
To the Inuit people, winning was enjoyable, but their culture valued survival skills essential to their environment: how hard someone tried could mean the difference between life and death. 
Over the course of his stay, Barger participated in caribou hunts, learned how to take shelter in winter storms, and sometimes went days with little or no food to share among tribal members. 
Trying hard and working together, two nonmaterial values, were indeed much more important than winning. 
During his time with the Inuit tribe, Barger learned to engage in cultural relativism. 
Cultural relativism is the practice of assessing a culture by its own standards rather than viewing it through the lens of one’s own culture. 
Practicing cultural relativism requires an open mind and a willingness to consider, and even adapt to, new values and norms. 
However, indiscriminately embracing everything about a new culture is not always possible. 
Even the most culturally relativist people from egalitarian societies—ones in which women have political rights and control over their own bodies—would question whether the widespread practice of female genital mutilation in countries such as Ethiopia and Sudan should be accepted as a part of cultural tradition. 
Sociologists attempting to engage in cultural relativism, then, may struggle to reconcile aspects of their own culture with aspects of a culture that they are studying. 
Sometimes when people attempt to rectify feelings of ethnocentrism and develop cultural relativism, they swing too far to the other end of the spectrum. 
Xenocentrism is the opposite of ethnocentrism, and refers to the belief that another culture is superior to one’s own. 
(The Greek root word xeno, pronounced “ZEE-no,” means “stranger” or “foreign guest.”) 
An exchange student who goes home after a semester abroad or a sociologist who returns from the field may find it difficult to associate with the values of their own culture after having experienced what they deem a more upright or nobler way of living. 
24.2 Spacetime and Gravity 
LEARNING OBJECTIVES 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Describe Einstein’s view of gravity as the warping of spacetime in the presence of massive objects 
Understand that Newton’s concept of the gravitational force between two massive objects and Einstein’s concept of warped spacetime are different explanations for the same observed accelerations of one massive object in the presence of another massive object 
Is light actually bent from its straight-line path by the mass of Earth? 
How can light, which has no mass, be affected by gravity? 
Einstein preferred to think that it is space and time that are affected by the presence of a large mass; light beams, and everything else that travels through space and time, then find their paths affected. 
Light always follows the shortest path—but that path may not always be straight. 
This idea is true for human travel on the curved surface of planet Earth, as well. 
Say you want to fly from Chicago to Rome. 
Since an airplane can’t go through the solid body of the Earth, the shortest distance is not a straight line but the arc of a great circle. 
Linkages: Mass, Space, and Time 
To show what Einstein’s insight really means, let’s first consider how we locate an event in space and time. 
For example, imagine you have to describe to worried school officials the fire that broke out in your room when your roommate tried cooking shish kebabs in the fireplace. 
You explain that your dorm is at 6400 College Avenue, a street that runs in the left-right direction on a map of your town; you are on the fifth floor, which tells where you are in the up-down direction; and you are the sixth room back from the elevator, which tells where you are in the forward-backward direction. 
Then you explain that the fire broke out at 6:23 p.m. (but was soon brought under control), which specifies the event in time. 
Any event in the universe, whether nearby or far away, can be pinpointed using the three dimensions of space and the one dimension of time. 
Newton considered space and time to be completely independent, and that continued to be the accepted view until the beginning of the twentieth century. 
But Einstein showed that there is an intimate connection between space and time, and that only by considering the two together—in what we call spacetime—can we build up a correct picture of the physical world. 
We examine spacetime a bit more closely in the next subsection. 
The gist of Einstein’s general theory is that the presence of matter curves or warps the fabric of spacetime. 
This curving of spacetime is identified with gravity. 
When something else—a beam of light, an electron, or the starship Enterprise—enters such a region of distorted spacetime, its path will be different from what it would have been in the absence of the matter. 
As American physicist John Wheeler summarized it: “Matter tells spacetime how to curve; spacetime tells matter how to move.” 
The amount of distortion in spacetime depends on the mass of material that is involved and on how concentrated and compact it is. 
Terrestrial objects, such as the book you are reading, have far too little mass to introduce any significant distortion. 
Newton’s view of gravity is just fine for building bridges, skyscrapers, or amusement park rides. 
General relativity does, however, have some practical applications. 
The GPS (Global Positioning System) in every smartphone can tell you where you are within 5 to 10 meters only because the effects of general and special relativity on the GPS satellites in orbit around the Earth are taken into account. 
Unlike a book or your roommate, stars produce measurable distortions in spacetime. 
A white dwarf, with its stronger surface gravity, produces more distortion just above its surface than does a red giant with the same mass. 
So, you see, we are eventually going to talk about collapsing stars again, but not before discussing Einstein’s ideas (and the evidence for them) in more detail. 
Spacetime Examples 
How can we understand the distortion of spacetime by the presence of some (significant) amount of mass? 
Let’s try the following analogy. 
You may have seen maps of New York City that squeeze the full three dimensions of this towering metropolis onto a flat sheet of paper and still have enough information so tourists will not get lost. 
Let’s do something similar with diagrams of spacetime. 
Figure 24.7, for example, shows the progress of a motorist driving east on a stretch of road in Kansas where the countryside is absolutely flat. 
Since our motorist is traveling only in the east-west direction and the terrain is flat, we can ignore the other two dimensions of space. 
The amount of time elapsed since he left home is shown on the y-axis, and the distance traveled eastward is shown on the x-axis. 
From A to B he drove at a uniform speed; unfortunately, it was too fast a uniform speed and a police car spotted him. 
From B to C he stopped to receive his ticket and made no progress through space, only through time. 
From C to D he drove more slowly because the police car was behind him. 
Figure 24.7 
Spacetime Diagram. 
This diagram shows the progress of a motorist traveling east across the flat Kansas landscape. 
Distance traveled is plotted along the horizontal axis. 
The time elapsed since the motorist left the starting point is plotted along the vertical axis. 
Now let’s try illustrating the distortions of spacetime in two dimensions. 
In this case, we will (in our imaginations) use a rubber sheet that can stretch or warp if we put objects on it. 
Let’s imagine stretching our rubber sheet taut on four posts. 
To complete the analogy, we need something that normally travels in a straight line (as light does). 
Suppose we have an extremely intelligent ant—a friend of the comic book superhero Ant-Man, perhaps—that has been trained to walk in a straight line. 
We begin with just the rubber sheet and the ant, simulating empty space with no mass in it. 
We put the ant on one side of the sheet and it walks in a beautiful straight line over to the other side (Figure 24.8). 
We next put a small grain of sand on the rubber sheet. 
The sand does distort the sheet a tiny bit, but this is not a distortion that we or the ant can measure. 
If we send the ant so it goes close to, but not on top of, the sand grain, it has little trouble continuing to walk in a straight line. 
Now we grab something with a little more mass—say, a small pebble. 
It bends or distorts the sheet just a bit around its position. 
If we send the ant into this region, it finds its path slightly altered by the distortion of the sheet. 
The distortion is not large, but if we follow the ant’s path carefully, we notice it deviating slightly from a straight line. 
The effect gets more noticeable as we increase the mass of the object that we put on the sheet. 
Let’s say we now use a massive paperweight. 
Such a heavy object distorts or warps the rubber sheet very effectively, putting a good sag in it. 
From our point of view, we can see that the sheet near the paperweight is no longer straight. 
2.3 Measures of the Location of the Data 
The common measures of location are quartiles and percentiles. 
Quartiles are special percentiles. 
The first quartile, Q1, is the same as the 25th percentile, and the third quartile, Q3, is the same as the 75th percentile. 
The median, M, is called both the second quartile and the 50th percentile. 
To calculate quartiles and percentiles, you must order the data from smallest to largest. 
Quartiles divide ordered data into quarters. 
Percentiles divide ordered data into hundredths. 
Recall that a percent means one-hundredth. 
So, percentiles mean the data is divided into 100 sections. 
To score in the 90th percentile of an exam does not mean, necessarily, that you received 90 percent on a test. 
It means that 90 percent of test scores are the same as or less than your score and that 10 percent of the test scores are the same as or greater than your test score. 
Percentiles are useful for comparing values. 
For this reason, universities and colleges use percentiles extensively. 
One instance in which colleges and universities use percentiles is when SAT results are used to determine a minimum testing score that will be used as an acceptance factor. 
For example, suppose Duke accepts SAT scores at or above the 75th percentile. 
That translates into a score of at least 1220. 
Percentiles are mostly used with very large populations. 
Therefore, if you were to say that 90 percent of the test scores are less, and not the same or less, than your score, it would be acceptable because removing one particular data value is not significant. 
The median is a number that measures the center of the data. 
You can think of the median as the middle value, but it does not actually have to be one of the observed values. 
It is a number that separates ordered data into halves. 
Half the values are the same number or smaller than the median, and half the values are the same number or larger. 
For example, consider the following data: 
1, 11.5, 6, 7.2, 4, 8, 9, 10, 6.8, 8.3, 2, 2, 10, 1 
Ordered from smallest to largest: 
1, 1, 2, 2, 4, 6, 6.8, 7.2, 8, 8.3, 9, 10, 10, 11.5 
When a data set has an even number of data values, the median is equal to the average of the two middle values when the data are arranged in ascending order (least to greatest). 
When a data set has an odd number of data values, the median is equal to the middle value when the data are arranged in ascending order. 
Since there are 14 observations (an even number of data values), the median is between the seventh value, 6.8, and the eighth value, 7.2. 
To find the median, add the two values together and divide by two. 
(6.8+7.2)/2=7 
The median is seven. 
Half of the values are smaller than seven and half of the values are larger than seven. 
Quartiles are numbers that separate the data into quarters. 
Quartiles may or may not be part of the data. 
To find the quartiles, first find the median, or second, quartile. 
The first quartile, Q1, is the middle value of the lower half of the data, and the third quartile, Q3, is the middle value, or median, of the upper half of the data. 
To get the idea, consider the same data set: 
1, 1, 2, 2, 4, 6, 6.8, 7.2, 8, 8.3, 9, 10, 10, 11.5 
The data set has an even number of values (14 data values), so the median will be the average of the two middle values (the average of 6.8 and 7.2), which is calculated as (6.8+7.2)/2 and equals 7. 
So, the median, or second quartile (Q2), is 7. 
The first quartile is the median of the lower half of the data, so if we divide the data into seven values in the lower half and seven values in the upper half, we can see that we have an odd number of values in the lower half. 
Thus, the median of the lower half, or the first quartile (Q1) will be the middle value, or 2. 
Using the same procedure, we can see that the median of the upper half, or the third quartile (Q3) will be the middle value of the upper half, or 9. 
The quartiles are illustrated below: 
Figure 2.11 
The interquartile range is a number that indicates the spread of the middle half, or the middle 50 percent of the data. 
It is the difference between the third quartile (Q3) and the first quartile (Q1) 
IQR = Q3 – Q1. 
The IQR for this data set is calculated as 9 minus 2, or 7. 
The IQR can help to determine potential outliers. 
A value is suspected to be a potential outlier if it is less than 1.5 × IQR below the first quartile or more than 1.5 × IQR above the third quartile. 
Potential outliers always require further investigation. 
NOTE 
A potential outlier is a data point that is significantly different from the other data points. 
These special data points may be errors or some kind of abnormality, or they may be a key to understanding the data. 
Example 2.15 
For the following 13 real estate prices, calculate the IQR and determine if any prices are potential outliers. 
Prices are in dollars. 
389,950; 230,500; 158,000; 479,000; 639,000; 114,950; 5,500,000; 387,000; 659,000; 529,000; 575,000; 488,800; 1,095,000 
Try It 2.15 
For the 11 salaries, calculate the IQR and determine if any salaries are outliers. 
The following salaries are in dollars. 
$33,000; $64,500; $28,000; $54,000; $72,000; $68,500; $69,000; $42,000; $54,000; $120,000; $40,500 
In the example above, you just saw the calculation of the median, first quartile, and third quartile. 
These three values are part of the five number summary. 
The other two values are the minimum value (or min) and the maximum value (or max). 
The five number summary is used to create a box plot. 
